

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 4
                                  TRADE FACILITATION AND CARGO SECURITY SUMMIT




                  TRADE FACILITATION AND CARGO SECURITY SUMMIT
                                                States News Service
                                              January 22, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1234 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection:

Philadelphia Marriott Downtown

1200 Filbert Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107

March 26-28

(Optional Pre-Registration Check-in: March 25 from 5:00-7:00pm ET)

U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) will host the 2024 Trade Facilitation and Cargo Security (TFCS) Summit
on March 26-28 at the Philadelphia Marriott Downtown and virtually via webcast. Sessions will include discussions
highlighting CTPAT, Broker Continuing Education Requirements, Combatting Illicit Opioids, Artificial Intelligence,
International Affairs, Global Business Identifier, Green Trade, Supply Chain Security, E-Commerce, Forced Labor
and much more. Summit times are as follows: March 26 from 8 a.m.-5 p.m., March 27 from 8 a.m.-5 p.m., and
March 28 from 8 a.m.-12:30 p.m. ET. Registration check-in begins at 7 a.m. each day. Full agenda forthcoming.

Registration Now Open (Virtual Only)

In-person registration is full.

Register Now

(Registration will close Thursday, March 14, 2024, at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time)

*NEW* Summit Networking Session

Connect and collaborate with CBP's leadership, other government agencies, trade industry partners, private sector,
and international trade community.

You don't want to miss this!

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 4
                            TRADE FACILITATION AND CARGO SECURITY SUMMIT

March 25th from 6:00-8:00 p.m. ET

In-Person Registration Information (Full)

The in-person registration fee is $346.00 U.S. dollars for non-government attendees. Registration must be
completed online with a valid credit card. Please do not use special characters in your name. Registrations will be
confirmed and processed on a first-come, first-served basis.

The registration fee includes continental breakfast on all three days; and beverages and light refreshments during
the breaks and lunch on days one and two.

Complimentary registration for government employees is limited and will be approved on a case-by-case basis. The
registration team will provide the status of your request once you complete registration.

All Title 5 Executive Agency employees must follow travel and relocation policies, including those on temporary duty
travel allowances. See Federal Travel Regulations, 41 C.F.R. 301-11.18, 301-74.21 (41 C.F.R. 301-11.18, 301-
74.21). Employees eligible to receive per diem expenses must adjust their Meals and Incidental Expenses (MandIE)
allowance to account for meals furnished by CBP.

Requests for special needs should be addressed to TFCSSummit@cbp.dhs.gov

Requests for vegetarian or vegan meals can be made during registration by Thursday, March 14. Kosher meals will
not be available.

Members of the press must contact the CBP Office of Public Affairs at cbpmediarelations@cbp.dhs.gov to register.
Space is limited to attend in person.

Onsite pre-registration check-in will be available on March 25 from 5:00-7:00pm ET. Please bring your registration
confirmation QR code with you.

Webcast Registration Information

*NEW* The webcast closed captioning will be available in English and Spanish!

The virtual registration fee is $32.00 U.S. dollars for non-government attendees. Registration must be completed
online with a valid credit card. Please do not use special characters in your name. Registrations will be confirmed
and processed on a first-come, first-served basis.

Complimentary registration for government employees is limited and will be granted on a first-come, first-served
basis.

Embassy employees will be complimentary when attending virtually only, due to limited space.

Virtual registrants will receive an access link for the webcast by Monday, March 25, 2024 to view the General
Sessions, Breakout Sessions, and Luncheon Keynotes for March 26-28, 2024, along with other available resources.
Exhibits and workshops will not be webcasted.

Please check your spam folder for your registration confirmation email if you do not receive it in your inbox.

Cancellation Policy

If you wish to cancel your registration with a refund, we must receive your request at TFCSSummit@cbp.dhs.gov
on or before Friday, March 1, 2024. No exceptions will be made. Refunds take approximately 1-3 weeks to be fully
processed. Please include your full name and confirmation number in your request. Registration transfer requests
must also be in writing and include the full name of the registered attendee, confirmation number, and new
attendee's full name and email address.

                                                                                                         Page 3 of 4
                             TRADE FACILITATION AND CARGO SECURITY SUMMIT

CBP will follow the federal government operating status as indicated on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management's
website, including specifics for employees located in the Washington, DC Metropolitan area. If the event is canceled
due to inclement weather, a natural disaster, or state of emergency, CBP will refund all registration fees within 14
days. Please note that it can take up to 90 days to be fully processed.

Lodging and Transportation Information

CBP has confirmed a limited hotel room block for attendees and is available on a first-come, first-served basis. All
arrangements and expenses for lodging are the responsibility of the attendee.

Non-government registrants will be able to book their room within the registration system, upon registering.
Government registrants will receive the room block booking information once your registration is confirmed.
Reservations within the acquired room block are limited to online booking.

Hotel and Event Venue: Philadelphia Marriott Downtown, 1200 Filbert Street (Guest Entrance), Philadelphia, PA
19107

Guest Room Wi-Fi: Sign up for Marriott Bonvoy Benefits to receive free in-room Wi-Fi.

Valet Parking: $66.00 per day

Nearest Airport: Philadelphia International Airport (PHL) - 12 miles

Nearest Train: The closest train stations to the hotel are the Jefferson Station at 12th and Market Streets - .2 miles
and the 30th Street Amtrak Station - 1.5 miles.

Nearest Subway Station: Spring Garden Station is the closest subway station to the hotel. - 1 mile

Things to Do in Philadelphia: Explore the area's attractions and events.

Global Entry

Interviews hosted by CBP for Global Entry enrollment will be conducted on a first-come-first-served basis by
appointment only for applicants already in conditional status. To notify the Trusted Traveler Program office of your
interest in an appointment, select the appropriate response during registration, at which point instructions for
scheduling your appointment will be provided. Appointments are available for in-person registrants only.

Centers of Excellence and Expertise

20-minute one-on-one discussion appointments with the Centers will be available during registration. Appointments
are available for in-person registrants only.

Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) Helpdesk

45-minute one-on-one discussion appointments with the ACE Helpdesk will be available during registration. Walk-
ins are also welcome. Appointments are available for in-person registrants only.

Certified Customs Specialist (CCS) Credits

Each session qualifies for Certified Customs Specialist (CCS) and Certified Export Specialist (CES) credits. CBP
will provide an event attendance confirmation letter containing instructions for requesting the credits to all confirmed
attendees, post-event.

Onsite Photography

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 4
                            TRADE FACILITATION AND CARGO SECURITY SUMMIT

CBP will have photographs taken throughout the Summit and use them as official CBP photos on CBP.gov. Unless
this permission is revoked in writing to CBP, by virtue of attendance, all Summit visitors agree to the use of their
likeness in such materials.

Find us on Twitter

@CBP and @CBPTradeGov


Load-Date: January 22, 2024


  
