

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                                   Netsurit Secures Debt Financing from Sunflower Bank




                   Netsurit Secures Debt Financing from Sunflower Bank
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           August 27, 2024 Tuesday 10:48 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 581 words
Dateline: NEW YORK, Aug. 27, 2024

Body


PR NewswireNEW YORK, Aug. 27, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Netsurit, a leading managed service provider (MSP) in
New York, has announced its recently closed debt financing transaction withSunflower Bank. This financing
collaboration strengthens Netsurit's position to support its acquisitive growth strategy. Q Advisors, a leading global
TMT investment banking boutique, acted as the exclusive financial advisor to Netsurit in this transaction.Netsurit
has completed seven acquisitions since 2021, with each offering strong synergies, expansion into new US markets,
and technical expertise. This newly completed debt package with Sunflower will allow Netsurit to explore additional
acquisitions in the managed services space.Netsurit provides comprehensive IT solutions, including cloud
migration, cybersecurity, backup and disaster recovery, and innovative digital transformation services. Netsurit has
offices in the US and South Africa and has been recognized as one of the world's top-performing MSPs by Channel
Futures and CRN.Sunflower Bank is a regional bank that offers a full range of financial products and services for
personal, business, and commercial customers. The bank executes a national technology-focused sector strategy
backed by a full-service suite of traditional banking and risk management products.

About NetsuritWith headquarters in New York, Netsurit is a global leader in IT solutions, providing comprehensive
managed services, cybersecurity, AI capabilities, and strategic insights for organizations of all sizes. For 27 years,
Netsurit has helped more than 600 businesses navigate the complexities of the modern workplace by ensuring
critical applications and infrastructure are always on, secure, and resilient.About Sunflower BankA regional bank
with a commercial focus, Sunflower Bank delivers highly personalized financial services to businesses and
entrepreneurs. With $8.0 billion in assets as of June 30, 2024, locations across five states, and headquarters in
Dallas, TX, Sunflower Bank provides a full range of banking services including personal, small business,
commercial, wealth management, credit cards, home loans, and more to the communities it serves. More
information is available at SunflowerBank.com.The Netsurit client relationship is managed by the Sunflower Bank
Technology, Media & Telecommunications lending group headquartered in Dallas, Texas. Sunflower Bank
manages and executes on full banking relationships for national middle market technology, media and
telecommunications companies. More information atwww.sunflowerbank.com.About Q AdvisorsQ Advisors was
formed in 2001 as a leading global investment bank serving public and private companies, PE firms, entrepreneurs
and large multinationals in the telecom, media, and technology (TMT) sectors. Our team of 30 professionals,
located in Denver and Munich, possess an extensive global reach, while also providing the personalized service of
a boutique advisory firm. We are uniquely suited as a long-term partner in navigating a path to dynamic financial
and strategic growth as we work to bring our clients best-in-class, independent advice by combining a level of

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
                             Netsurit Secures Debt Financing from Sunflower Bank

commitment, operational understanding, and industry knowledge that is unmatched in the investment banking
industry. More information atwww.qllc.com.Media Contact:Jolandi Marais
 View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/netsurit-secures-debt-financing-from-sunflower-
bank-302231789.htmlSOURCE Netsurit


Load-Date: August 27, 2024


  
