

                                                                                               Page 1 of 4
                  COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY PREVIEW WEEK OF FEBRUARY 12, 2024




  COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY PREVIEW WEEK OF FEBRUARY 12,
                             2024
                                               States News Service
                                           February 12, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1279 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the office of House Majority Leader Steve Scalise:

Here's what to watch for from House Republican committees during the week:

Agriculture

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Agriculture will hold afull committee hearingcalled "For the
Purpose of Receiving Testimony from The Honorable Thomas J. Vilsack, Secretary, U.S. Department of
Agriculture."

Armed Services

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Armed Services will hold afull committee hearingcalled "Outpacing
China: Expediting the Fielding of Innovation."

Budget

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on the Budget will hold afull committee hearingcalled "The
Congressional Budget Office's Budget and Economic Outlook."

Education and the Workforce

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Workforce Protections will hold ahearingcalled "Examining the
Policies and Priorities of the Wage and Hour Division."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions will hold
ahearingcalled "Protecting American Savers and Retirees from Dol's Regulatory Overreach."

Energy and Commerce

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 4
                  COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY PREVIEW WEEK OF FEBRUARY 12, 2024

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Health will hold ahearingcalled "Legislative Proposals to
Support Patients and Caregivers."

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Energy, Climate, and Grid Security will hold ahearingcalled
"Powered Up: State Utility Regulators on Challenges to Reliable, Affordable Electricity."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology will hold ahearingcalled
"Securing Communications Networks from Foreign Adversaries."

Financial Services

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Financial Services will hold afull committee hearingcalled
"Oversight of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) and the Office of Terrorism and Financial
Intelligence (TFI)."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Monetary Policywill hold ahearingcalled
"Lender of Last Resort: Issues with the Fed Discount Window and Emergency Lending."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Digital Assets, Financial Technology and Inclusion will hold
ahearingcalled "Crypto Crime in Context Part II: Examining Approaches to Combat Illicit Activity."

Foreign Affairs

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will hold afull committee hearingentitled, "AUKUS
Implementation and Challenges to International Security and Arms Control in the 21st Century."

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Africa will hold ahearingcalled "The Future of Freedom in
Nigeria."

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on theMiddle East, North Africa, and Central will hold
ahearingcalled "Iran's Proxy in Yemen: The Houthi Threat to Middle East Stability, Global Shipping, and U.S.
Servicemembers."

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will hold afull committee hearingcalled "Behind the
Scenes: How the Biden Administration Failed to Enforce the Doha Agreement."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere will hold ahearingcalled "The Agents of
Antisemitism in Latin America."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Europe will hold ahearingcalled "Going Nuclear on Rosatom:
Ending Global Dependence on Putin's Nuclear Energy Sector."

Homeland Security

On Thursday, February 15, theSubcommittee on Emergency Management and Technology will hold
ahearingentitled "Examining Fire Hazards: Lithium-Ion Batteries and Other Threats to Fire Safety."

Judiciary

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Crime and Federal Government Surveillance will hold
ahearingcalled "Oversight of the United States Marshals Service."

Natural Resources

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Water, Wildlife and Fisheries will hold alegislative hearingon
the following bills:

                                                                                                Page 3 of 4
                 COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY PREVIEW WEEK OF FEBRUARY 12, 2024

H.R. 3119, To provide for the issuance of a Manatee Semipostal Stamp(Soto)

H.R. 6784, the ESA Flexibility Act(Stauber)

H.R. 6854, the Habitat Enhancement Now Act(Fischbach)

H.R. 7157, the Strengthen Wood Product Supply Chains Act(Duarte)

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Indian and Insular Affairs will hold anoversight hearingtitled
"Economic Diversification to Create Prosperous Tribal Economies."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will hold anoversight hearingtitled
"Bidenomics and Land Management: The Misguided National Strategy to Develop Environmental Economic
Decisions."

Oversight and Accountability

On Thursday, February 15, the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic will hold ahearingtitled
"Assessing America's Vaccine Safety Systems, Part 1."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on National Security, the Border, and Foreign Affairs will hold
ahearingtitled "The Consequences of Catch and Release at the Border."

Rules

On Tuesday, February 13, the Committee on Rules willmeeton the following measure:

H.R. 7176, the Unlocking our Domestic LNG Potential Act of 2024 (Pfluger)

Science, Space, and Technology

On Wednesday, February 14, theSubcommittee on Space and Aeronautics will hold ahearingcalled "ISS and
Beyond: The Present and Future of American Low-Earth Orbit Activities."

On Thursday, February 15, theCommittee on Science, Space, Technology will hold afull committee hearingcalled
"Examining Federal Science Agency Actions to Secure the U.S. Science and Technology Enterprise."

Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party

On Tuesday, February 13, theSelect Committee on the Chinese Communist Party will hold ahearingcalled "Growing
Stakes: The Bioeconomy and American National Security."

Small Business

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Small Business will hold afull committee hearingcalled
"Burdensome Regulations: Examining the Impact of EPA Regulations on Main Street."

On Thursday, February 15, theSubcommittee on Contracting and Infrastructure will hold ahearingcalled "Leveling
the Playing Field: Challenges Facing Small Business Contracting."

Transportation and Infrastructure

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency
Management will hold ahearingcalled "Disaster Readiness: Examining the Propriety of the Expanded Use of FEMA
Resources."

On Thursday, February 15, theSubcommittee on Highways and Transit will hold ahearingcalled "Implementation of
Buy America Provisions: Stakeholder Perspectives."

                                                                                                    Page 4 of 4
               COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY PREVIEW WEEK OF FEBRUARY 12, 2024

Veterans Affairs

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Veterans Affairs will hold afull committee hearingtitled, "VA's HR
Office: Did Leaders Ignore and Perpetrate Sexual Harassment?"

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Veterans Affairs will hold abusiness meeting.

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs will hold anoversight
hearingtitled, "Is VA Illegally Spending Taxpayer Dollars in its Compensation and Pension Programs?"

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Technology Modernization will hold anoversight hearingtitled,
"Electronic Health Record Modernization Deep Dive: Can the Oracle Pharmacy Software Be Made Safe and
Effective?"

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Health will hold anoversight hearingtitled, "Artificial Intelligence
at VA: Exploring its Current State and Future Possibilities."

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Veterans Affairs will hold afull committee oversight hearingtitled,
"Sink or Swim? A Deep Dive into the Current State of VA's Home Loan Program in a Competitive Market."

Ways and Means

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Ways and Means will hold afull committee hearingtitled "Hearing with
Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, Daniel Werfel."


Load-Date: February 12, 2024


  
