

                                                                                                Page 1 of 2
      Fusion Risk Management Announces General Availability of Generative AI-Powered Assistant Resilience
                         Copilot gives organizations a trusted advisor and technical ....




Fusion Risk Management Announces General Availability of Generative AI-
Powered Assistant; Resilience Copilot gives organizations a trusted advisor
 and technical consultant at their fingertips that helps to strengthen critical
          continuity, risk management, and resilience programs
                                                    Business Wire
                                     February 28, 2024 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 599 words
Dateline: CHICAGO & LONDON

Body


Fusion Risk Management, Inc. ("Fusion"), a leading provider of cloud-based operational resilience, business
continuity, and risk management solutions, has announced general availability of its AI-powered assistant Fusion
Resilience Copilot(TM) following a successful global beta program. Resilience Copilot(TM) is pre-configured to
answer critical questions at the click of a button, providing insights and recommendations. Powered by industry best
practices and 20 years of boots-on-the-ground resilience and continuity experience, Resilience Copilot enables
practitioners to automate manual and time-consuming activities, unlock deeper insights into incidents, and quickly
respond to disruptions.

Resilience Copilot is an extension of your team, acting as an advisor, analyst, and guide to turn data into immediate
actionable insights. Contextual prompts in the Fusion platform allow practitioners to ask critical questions about
their continuity, risk management, and resilience programs and receive fast, clear recommendations and situational
summaries that help users accelerate time to value, increase productivity, and enhance their decision-making.
Fusion customers can now significantly improve and expand critical activities, including business impact analyses
(BIAs), continuity plans, incident management, issue management, and exercise and scenario testing.

A transformative asset for business continuity and resilience programs, Resilience Copilot aids organizations by
collecting more complete information and providing detailed insights and recommendations for continuous program
improvement. Users can also reduce the time and effort required to fully understand the scope and status of an
incident and quickly communicate critical insights to stakeholders through AI-generated summaries. Resilience
Copilot gives risk teams greater visibility into incidents and allows them to answer critical questions across impacted
assets, understand the impact of an incident on all services, and improve program effectiveness following an
incident by identifying recovery strategy gaps and improvements - all at the click of a button.

"Today's risk teams need a better way to leverage generative AI and automation to streamline manual processes
and minimize the response time between impact and action when an incident occurs. Resilience Copilot was
created to meet that demand, and we're grateful to Fusion's global customers who participated in our beta program

                                                                                               Page 2 of 2
     Fusion Risk Management Announces General Availability of Generative AI-Powered Assistant Resilience
                        Copilot gives organizations a trusted advisor and technical ....

to help us enhance this transformative AI asset," said Eric Jackson, Chief Product Officer, Fusion Risk
Management. "Resilience Copilot gives Fusion customers a resilience power up by placing actionable insights and
guidance right at their fingertips. Customers can now extend their continuity and resilience teams without hiring
additional staff, reduce team stress and workloads, and free up critical resources to focus on other value-added
activities. We're excited to continue working with our customers to innovate for the future as we transform
Resilience Copilot beyond typical AI capabilities."

About Fusion Risk Management, Inc.

Fusion is a leading industry provider of cloud-based operational resilience software, encompassing business
continuity and disaster recovery, risk management, third-party risk management, crisis and incident management,
and more. Its solutions empower organizations to make data-driven decisions with a holistic, agile approach and
enable them to deliver on their brand promise through disruption.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240228483821/en/


CONTACT: Media
Articulate Communications for Fusion Risk Management, Inc.

fusion@articulatecomms.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: February 28, 2024


  
