

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
   HYCU, Inc. Leverages Anthropic to Revolutionize Data Protection Through Generative AI Technology Creates
                          Industry’s first AI-led Development to Protect Any SaaS....




  HYCU, Inc. Leverages Anthropic to Revolutionize Data Protection Through
  Generative AI Technology; Creates Industry’s first AI-led Development to
  Protect Any SaaS Application in Hours When No Protection Was Available
                                   Prior
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                             January 30, 2024 Tuesday 5:30 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT; PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT; PRESS RELEASES
Length: 864 words

Body

Boston, Massachusetts, Jan. 30, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- HYCU, Inc., a leader in data protection as a
service and one of the fastest growing companies in the industry, today announced the HYCU Generative AI
Initiative. This project aims to seamlessly integrate generative AI technology, including Anthropics' AI assistant
Claude with HYCU's R-Cloud data protection platform, redefining the development process of data protection
integrations and creating an easy to use way to create SaaS integrations.

"This development with Anthropic’s frontier generative AI model Claude is more than an integration; it's a leap
forward in the future of data protection,” said Simon Taylor, Founder and CEO, HYCU, Inc. “By harnessing AI, we're
not only accelerating our development processes but also reinforcing our commitment to security and operational
efficiency. We're excited to take R-Cloud to the next level and pioneer this space and set new standards for the
industry."

HYCU Generative AI Sets New Benchmark for SaaS Data Protection

The HYCU Generative AI Initiative includes:
    •     AI-Driven Development Process: Leveraging Anthropic’s Claude model with HYCU’s security-centric
          design evolves the platform into an intelligent, responsive, and adaptable development environment.
    •     Deep Understanding of Data Protection Complexities: The integration allows Claude to fully understand
          the nuances of compliance, encryption, and recovery protocols, custom-tailored for HYCU’s platform.

                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
  HYCU, Inc. Leverages Anthropic to Revolutionize Data Protection Through Generative AI Technology Creates
                         Industry’s first AI-led Development to Protect Any SaaS....

    •   Dramatic Reduction in Development Time: The integration significantly cuts down the development time
        for data protection integrations from weeks to hours.
    •   Maintaining High Standards: All AI-driven integrations will adhere to HYCU’s stringent standards of
        security and efficiency.

Strategic Impact of Generative AI Data Protection for HYCU R-Cloud

Today’s news marks three significant innovations to the HYCU R-Cloud award-winning platform.
    •   Pioneering Infrastructure Software Protection and Recovery: This initiative places HYCU at the
        forefront of integrating AI in data protection, marking a landmark moment in infrastructure software
        innovation. It also builds on the introduction of R-Scout, an AI Powered assistant HYCU introduced earlier
        to make it easy for customers and partners to learn about the breadth of HYCU offerings, educate them on
        how to leverage each solution from on-prem to public cloud to SaaS, and provide best practice guidance.
    •   Synergyzing Company Missions: The collaboration aligns the missions of HYCU and Anthropic,
        emphasizing the creation of a safer world through advanced data protection and AI.
    •   Setting New Benchmarks for SaaS and Cloud Services with AI: HYCU sets a new industry standard for
        AI-driven data protection platforms, as this level of collaboration and execution is new. It also delivers a
        new way for the thousands of HYCU customers to easily protect SaaS applications and cloud services
        when protection was previously not available. In addition to protecting core cloud services, HYCU is also
        focused on protecting the data and configuration in specialized AI services that are becoming critical for
        customers. The initial AI infrastructure HYCU protects out of the box are PineCone and Redis – both used
        as core Vector Databases critical for AI

HYCU R-Cloud includes the world’s first low-code development platform for data protection that enables SaaS
companies and service providers to deliver application-native backup and recovery efficiently and rapidly. HYCU R-
Cloud has been recognized for setting the bar for SaaS data backup and protection for its ease of use of integration
for both end users and SaaS providers.

“Leveraging cutting-edge AI technology is a testament to HYCU's commitment to technological innovation and
leadership in the data protection industry,” said Philippe Nicolas, Principal, Coldago Research. “It is another strong
example of how HYCU continues to deliver unparalleled value to customers and reinforces HYCU's position as a
market leader."

For more information on HYCU R-Cloud, visit: https://www.hycu.com/r-cloud, follow us on X (formerly Twitter),
connect with us on LinkedIn, Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube.

###

About HYCU HYCU is the fastest-growing leader in the multi-cloud and SaaS data protection as a service industry.
By bringing true SaaS-based data backup and recovery to on-premises, cloud-native and SaaS environments, the
company provides unparalleled data protection, migration, disaster recovery, and ransomware protection to
thousands of companies worldwide. As an award-winning and recognized visionary in the industry, HYCU solutions
eliminate complexity, risk, and the high cost of legacy-based solutions, providing data protection simplicity to make
the world safer. With an industry leading NPS score of 91, customers experience frictionless, cost-effective data
protection, anywhere, everywhere. HYCU has raised $140M in VC funding to date and is based in Boston, Mass.
Learn more at www.hycu.com.

   Attachment


    •   HYCU R-Cloud Leverages Anthropic to Revolutionize Data Protection through Generative AI Technology
Don Jennings HYCU, Inc. 617-791-1710 don.jennings@hycu.com

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
  HYCU, Inc. Leverages Anthropic to Revolutionize Data Protection Through Generative AI Technology Creates
                         Industry’s first AI-led Development to Protect Any SaaS....


Load-Date: January 30, 2024


  
