

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 5
                Northwest Missouri State University Alumni Association to Honor 8 for Success, Service




     Northwest Missouri State University Alumni Association to Honor 8 for
                               Success, Service
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                        February 21, 2024 Wednesday 9:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 2776 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: MARYVILLE, Missouri

Body


Northwest Missouri State University issued the following news release:

Eight distinguished members of the Northwest Missouri State University family will be honored during the annual
Northwest Alumni Awards Banquet for dedicating their time, talent and service to the University as well as for
accomplishments in their chosen fields.

The Northwest Alumni Association is hosting its 2024 banquet on Saturday, April 13, at the Agricultural Learning
Center, located north of the Maryville campus at the R.T. Wright Farm on Highway 71. The event begins with a
social at 5 p.m., and the dinner and awards presentation begins at 6 p.m.

More information about the honorees is provided below. For more information about the Northwest Alumni Awards
Banquet, including registration, visit www.nwmissouri.edu/alumni/events/.

Additionally, the Northwest Alumni Association is now collecting nominations for its 2025 Alumni Association
Awards. Nominations must be submitted by April 30, on forms provided by the Alumni Association. Information
about each award category, including the scoring matrix, an online nomination form and printable forms, can be
found at www.nwmissouri.edu/alumni/events/awards/nominations.htm. Nominators should provide as much
information about the nominee as possible as the completeness of the nomination form impacts the selection
process.

For more information, contact the Office of Alumni Relations at 660.562.1248 or alumni@nwmissouri.edu

Distinguished Alumni Award: Dr. Mark Harpst

Harpst worked in the education field for 32 years as a teacher, coach, high school principal and superintendent of
schools.

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 5
             Northwest Missouri State University Alumni Association to Honor 8 for Success, Service

He graduated from Northwest with bachelor's degrees in English and physical education in 1977 and then earned a
master's degree in physical education and school administration in 1980 and an education specialist degree in 1983
from the University.

He became a principal in Fairfax, Missouri, at age 26, and after gaining administrative experience as a principal in
several other northwest Missouri districts, he accepted his first superintendent position in his hometown of Weston
at age 34. He retired in 2009, ending a 13-year tenure as superintendent of the Platte County R-III School District
that included unprecedented growth and building projects.

He later served as a financial consultant, capital improvements coordinator and interim superintendent in area
school districts as well as a financial mentor to Missouri superintendents. In 2014, while serving as an interim
superintendent of the West Platte School District, he organized the West Platte Education Foundation and remains
a member of its board.

Among his recognitions, Harpst was chosen in 2003 as Missouri Superintendent of the Year and was honored in
2001 as Northland Administrator of the Year by the Northland Chamber of Commerce.

He has served as president of the Missouri Association of School Administrators, of the Northwest Missouri School
Administrators Association and of the Northwest Missouri Secondary Principals Association. In 2001, he organized
a golf tournament sponsored by the Northwest Missouri School Administrators Association to provide college
scholarships, and the event remains an annual fundraiser, providing scholarships to as many as 10 students each
year.

Within his community, Harpst has volunteered to coach youth sports, and he coordinates recreation activities as
part of the senior ministry at Platte Wood Methodist Church. He also has served with the Board of Directors of
Hillcrest Platte County and the Embassy Park Homeowners Association Board.

Distinguished Faculty Award: Dr. Jeffry Thornsberry

Thornsberry joined Northwest in 2003 to teach genetics, biology, plant physiology and molecular biology after
earning a Ph.D. in plant molecular biology and genetics at the University of Missouri.

He earned tenure and promotion to associate professor in 2010 and currently serves as chair of the Department of
Natural Sciences. He has contributed to Northwest not only as an outstanding teacher and scholar but in leadership
capacities as an assistant department chair and president of the Faculty Senate during the 2011-2012 academic
year.

Thornsberry, who worked previously as a research geneticist with the United States Department of Agriculture,
focuses his academic research on natural genetic variation in corn and the regulation of gene expression related to
photosynthesis. He has published scholarly articles related to plant genetics in prestigious journals, including
Nature Genetics, Genetic Research, Current Opinion in Plant Biology, Plant Molecular Biology, and Science.

The Northwest and Maryville communities have collectively benefited from Thornsberry's strong advocacy for
science education, particularly in the field of biology and through his work with high school students in Science
Olympiad. He also has worked with Maryville science teachers in several capacities, including as a mentor to help
them expand their skills and experience as adjunct faculty at Northwest.

He has worked diligently in support of the Missouri Science Olympiad, Upward Bound Math and Science, the Pre-
Health Occupations Club, and the National Society of Collegiate Scholars. He is a member of Signa Xi, a scientific
research honor society that supports student advancement into employment in science fields, as well as the
American Society of Plant Biologists and the Genetics Society.

Distinguished Faculty Emeritus Award: Dr. Christine Benson

Benson retired from Northwest in 2020 as a professor of mathematics and statistics and chair of the Department of
Mathematics and Statistics, after 27 years of service as a faculty member.

                                                                                                         Page 3 of 5
              Northwest Missouri State University Alumni Association to Honor 8 for Success, Service

Having earned a master's degree in teaching mathematics at Northwest in 1989, Benson began her career at the
University in 1993 as an instructor. She advanced her faculty ranking to assistant professor in 1997, associate
professor in 2004 and professor in 2010. She was named chair of the Department of Mathematics, Computer
Science and Information Systems in 2014 and retained her role as chair of the Department of Mathematics and
Statistics after Northwest restructured its academic departments in 2016.

Other contributions to Northwest and her field include service as the secretary and treasurer of the Missouri
Mathematics Association for the Advancement of Teacher Training and as a member of the development and
writing team for the elementary mathematics specialist certification and collaborative degree program. She was a
member of the Faculty Senate and served on numerous department and University committees, including as chair
of the Council on Teacher Education, the Teacher Education Guidance Committee, chair and secretary of the
Curriculum and Degree Requirements Committee, and chair of the Designated Curricular Matters Committee. She
currently is secretary of the Northwest Retiree Association.

In the Maryville community, she is an active member of First United Methodist Church, where she has served as a
member of the Jubilee praise team, the worship ministries team and prayer teams as well as a choir director and
bell choir director. She has served in leadership roles with the Kairos Prison Ministry and Nodaway Chorale. She
also has served as a member of the Maryville Band Boosters, including two years as president, and as a board
secretary, president and coach with the American Youth Soccer Organization.

Benson started her career by teaching mathematics to students in grades seven through 12, first in Hamilton, Ohio,
and then in Ravenwood, Missouri. From 1995 to 1997, she was a graduate research assistant at the University of
Missouri-Kansas City while completing her Ph.D.

Honorary Alumni Award: Bill Brinton

Since Northwest began hosting the Missouri Hope disaster response field training exercise in 2013, Brinton has
been on the front lines of advocating for the program, recruiting countless agencies, experts and other resources to
ensure students have the best possible profession-based learning experience.

With the support of his contributions, the annual Missouri Hope exercise is the largest disaster response simulation
in the region, attracting nearly 25 partner agencies and 12 higher education institutions, totaling a value of nearly $3
million in resources and personnel.

Brinton is willing to do anything to help the simulation and program succeed, from mentoring students in the
Emergency Operations Center to getting covered in mud while he helps wash equipment. He often attends regional
meetings while proudly wearing his Missouri Hope shirts or displaying EDM program patches in his office.

In his profession, Brinton has served since 2004 as the director of Buchanan County Emergency Management. He
also has served Buchanan County as a reserve deputy for its sheriff's department and as a flood plain manager. He
is chief of the Region H HSRRS/Hazmat Team in St Joseph.

He began his career in public safety with the St. Joseph Police Department in 1971 and has remained involved in
public service since. He has worked as a paramedic, criminal justice and business administration educator, and
assistant to the city manager of St. Joseph. He has served as chair of several committees charged with ensuring
the safety of Missouri residents, often spending his time reviewing plans and conducting research and after-action
reviews with the goal of improving the safety and protection of residents.

He holds associate and bachelor's degrees from Missouri Western State University and a master's degree from the
University of Central Missouri.

Public Service Award: Lesley Martin

Martin is a teacher at Staley High School and has taught computer science in a high school setting for 22 years in
the North Kansas City School District.

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 5
              Northwest Missouri State University Alumni Association to Honor 8 for Success, Service

Since completing her bachelor's degree at Northwest in secondary business education in 2002, she has exhibited a
drive to inspire young students to pursue post-secondary degrees in the field of computer science, guiding several
students toward Northwest's computer science program. She believes computer science is a rewarding field, which
is evident in her classroom every day.

During her career, she has created curriculum for several computer science courses and piloted two courses for
Project Lead the Way, for which she was a master teacher and trained others on the curriculum. She helped
Northwest implement a grant from Google to teach fellow educators how to facilitate MIT App Inventor in their
classrooms. She has participated in panel discussions and contributed to lightning talks at the Consortium for
Computing Sciences in Colleges.

Martin serves as the sponsor for Staley High School's successful Future Business Leaders of America program.
She also sponsored two student groups that won Best in State for the Verizon App Challenge.

She serves as vice president for the Kansas City Regional chapter of the Computer Science Teachers Association.
She is a recipient of the Advanced Placement Diversity Enrollment Award, presented by the Advanced Placement
College Board; Central Exchange's STEMMY WiSTEMM Educator Award; the Missouri Department of Elementary
and Secondary Education's Regional Teacher of the Year award; and the National Center for Women in
Informational Technology's Aspirations in Computer Educators award, for western Missouri and Kansas; among
other honors.

Turret Service Award: Marsha Alsbury Leopard and Lynn Leopard

The Leopards have dedicated much of their lives to supporting Northwest - as well as their community, church and
schools - with a passion, spirit and focus on family that embodies the University's culture.

As a member of the Northwest Alumni Association's Board of Directors from 2014 to 2020, Marsha co-created and
hosted a senior send-off event for Chillicothe high school students entering Northwest. The Leopards regularly
encourage youth to attend Northwest by sharing the opportunities it offers, and they have mentored and delivered
care packages to Bearcats who attended their send-offs.

Marsha also served as chair of the Alumni Association's promotion committee and actively attended University
events. During the Forever Green campaign, she helped lead the Alumni Association Board to new giving levels.
Meanwhile, Lynn was always in the background, engaging spouses to play golf and participate in other activities to
help them feel welcome with the Northwest family.

As a couple, the Leopards can be found at football tailgate events, helping the Northwest Alumni Association.
Additionally, they contribute to Northwest's scholarship fund and established the Alsbury-Leopard Music
Scholarship to support vocal and instrumental majors while honoring three generations of Northwest graduates in
their family who were involved with the music program.

Marsha, who graduated from Northwest with her bachelor's degree in elementary education in 1971 and a master's
degree in elementary education in 1976, was employed for 37 years as an elementary teacher, first in Stanberry,
Missouri, and then in Chillicothe where she was recognized in 2001 as the District Teacher of the Year. After
retiring in 2005, she continued to teach part-time until accepting a job with the Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education as a consultant for "Moving on Together," a grant program for Missouri preschools.

Lynn, who earned his master's degree in secondary education at Northwest in 1976, was employed for 31 years as
a high school teacher, having served as chair of the math and computer department and as a football and golf
coach in Chillicothe. During his tenure, he set up the first computer lab and networked all the schools in the district.
He also completed 22 years of service with the Missouri Air National Guard as a communication security
supervisor. After retiring from public education, he was the educational supervisor of the GED school for 10 years at
the Chillicothe Correctional Center for Women.

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 5
             Northwest Missouri State University Alumni Association to Honor 8 for Success, Service

Their community activities include numerous leadership and service roles in support of the Chillicothe United
Methodist Church, the Chillicothe Correctional Center, the Livingston County Retired Teacher's Organization, the
Chillicothe Area Arts Council, Backpack Buddies, Meals on Wheels, the Chillicothe Utilities Board and the
Chillicothe Lions Clubs, among others.

Young Alumni Award: Johnathan McQuaide

McQuaide is employed as a lead technical and business consultant with Duke Energy in Kokomo, Indiana, where
he has established himself as a compliance subject matter expert and leader across its service territory in parts of
six states.

He earned his bachelor's degree in wildlife ecology and conservation in 2005 and, after obtaining a master's
degree, joined Duke Energy in 2012. He inspected rights-of-way for vegetation hazards and progressed to become
a vegetation management specialist, coordinating all aspects of vegetation activities in Duke Energy's northern
Indiana territory.

In 2017, he was promoted to the role of system forester and demonstrated excellent leadership and collaboration
skills by providing policy and procedure governance, leading and ensuring regulatory compliance, establishing
operational specifications and processes, providing safety and technical support, and serving as the Duke Energy
representative on various industry associations and committees.

In 2019, he was promoted to a lead role in transmission vegetation strategy and support with responsibility for
strategic planning, business transformational change and technology implementation, including remote sensing and
artificial intelligence on more than 30,000 miles of right of way.

He has led strike teams into the Carolinas and Florida to help restore power in the aftermaths of hurricanes, led a
transmission vegetation management team through multiple audits to assess compliance, and presented at national
conferences and meetings about vegetation management and compliance.

He is a recipient of the James B. Duke Award for Operational Excellence, the company's highest honor, for his work
with a team to implement a system to increase safety while using helicopters to inspect power lines. He also
received the company's Transmission Operational Excellence for Caring award for mentoring and assisting
employers to advance themselves educationally and professionally.

He has volunteered with the Coyote Kid program, a six-week summer running program serving more than 800
children annually. He also is president of Club Kokomo Roadrunners. With his wife, Dani, he regularly fosters dogs
through Peru Animal Care & Control.

***

Original text here: https://www.nwmissouri.edu/media/news/2024/02/20alumniawards.htm

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8495552 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: February 21, 2024


  
