

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
   Beko Takes 'Sustainability at Heart' and introduces 16th Sustainability Report, with the Motto 'Feels like Home'
                                 to Urge Each Stakeholder to Start the Change at....




   Beko Takes 'Sustainability at Heart' and introduces 16th Sustainability
  Report, with the Motto 'Feels like Home' to Urge Each Stakeholder to Start
                             the Change at Home
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           June 5, 2024 Wednesday 8:19 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1595 words
Dateline: ISTANBUL, June 5, 2024

Body


PR NewswireBeko's recently released 16th Sustainability Report shows how the company is committed to set the
bar further to increase the ESG standards in the white goods industryBeko's CEO: "Our goal is clear: to create
home appliances that not only meet the needs of our consumers but also contribute positively to our planet"Beko is
committed to being a net-zero business by 2050; this goal reflects its dedication to sustainability and its vision for
the futureISTANBUL, June 5, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Beko, the global household goods company, has long been an
advocate for sustainable development and sets an example as an innovator in sustainable home appliances, paving
the way to a net-zero future. Beko's recently released 16th Sustainability Report adopts the theme of "Sustainability
at Heart: Where 'Feels Like Home' Begins" and showcases the company's industry-leading standards in green
energy utilization, energy efficient products and processes as well as resource efficiency and incorporation of
recycled materials in its products.

Hakan Bulgurlu, CEO of Beko, said:"At Beko, we aren't just creating home appliances, we're innovating for a
sustainable future. This past year has seen us reach significant milestones in green energy and recycling, but we
see these as steps on our journey, not the destination. Our goal is clear: to create home appliances that not only
meet the needs of our consumers but also contribute positively to our planet. We're committed to becoming a net-
zero business by 2050, and each achievement brings us closer to this goal. Our role extends beyond
manufacturing; we're striving to make every home a beacon of sustainability and a testament to a greener
future."Finding New Ways to Manufacture More Sustainably Every Single DayBeko is committed to being a
net-zero business by 2050. This long-term goal reflects its dedication to sustainability and its vision for the future.
Beko shows its commitment to using green energy; the company's installed solar energy system capacity in 2023
has raised significantly to 20.3 MW from only 3.26 MW in 2022. Through energy and water efficiency and rainwater
harvesting projects in 2023, a total of 95.680 GJ of energy saved, and 288,973 m3 of water saved in production
processes. A total of 16,543 tonnes of recycled plastic were used in products, demonstrating its innovative
approach to increase resource efficiency in products and production. Moreover, a total of 253 suppliers reported
their environmental data within the scope of Supplier ESG Program and received commitments from 166 suppliers
to set environmental targets.Maintaining a robust financial performance is essential for continuous investment in
sustainable innovation. Beko has demonstrated this through its impressive net sales which have reached EUR 8

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
  Beko Takes 'Sustainability at Heart' and introduces 16th Sustainability Report, with the Motto 'Feels like Home'
                                to Urge Each Stakeholder to Start the Change at....

billion (TRY 257,104 million). This not only showcases the company's financial solidity, but also its unwavering
commitment to sustainability. Adding further credibility to Beko's initiatives, the company has received a fund of
EUR 3.77 million from Horizon Europe projects. This key funding program for research and innovation, provided by
the European Union, emphasises the value and trust placed in the company's sustainable projects. Furthermore,
Beko has achieved notable savings of EUR 11.3 million (TRY 396.7 million) through its digital transformation
projects. This accomplishment underscores Beko's innovative application of technology in enhancing efficiency and
promoting sustainability.Consistent Sustainability Progress: Global AccoladesAchieving a score of 86 (out of
100) in the 2023 S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment is a notable recognition of Beko's parent
company Arçelik's exceptional sustainability efforts. The company has once again been listed as the highest-
scoring company in the DHP Household Durables Industry for the fifth time in a row out of 46 companies assessed
(Score date: October 27, 2023, DJSI Emerging Markets). Additionally, the company has been recognised on The
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations Ranking of Corporate Knights, for the fourth consecutive year. Arçelik
and Beko have prominent listings in the Real Leaders Top 300 Impact Companies of 2023 as well, ranking 16th and
17th, respectively.Targets and Progress ReportingThe 2023 Sustainability Report lays out the full details of
Beko's sustainability targets categorised by the "Planet," "Human Needs," and "Business." The targets include
progress made since 2021 and the associated contribution towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs), ranging from climate change, water, chemicals, plastics, healthy living, tackling food waste, supporting
local communities and talent development through to diversity, decent work, and sustainable value chain. The
Report emphasises Beko's dedication to furthering the SDGs, particularly the 12 focused within the Report where
the company makes direct and significant contributions. It underscores the integration of these goals within Beko's
corporate ethos and business framework.The company's prominent progress in sustainability in 2023 is as
follows:By the end of 2023, Arçelik branded panels with a capacity of approximately 301 MW were produced for the
Turkish market.EnergySpin technology was developed which provides up to 35% energy savings compared to
products without EnergySpin technology without compromising washing performance in the most frequently used
washing programs.AI Sense, an artificial intelligence technology that automatically detects fabric type, load
amount, soiling and rinse level thanks to smart sensors integrated into the washing machine, focuses on increasing
resource efficiency in every wash.In cooperation with WWF Turkey and the Association for the Protection of Marine
Life (DYKD), ghost fishing nets in the Marmara Sea were collected to be recycled and used in products in
2023.Beko became one of the first participants of the "Forward Faster Initiative" launched by the UN Global
Compact (UNGC) at the 78th UN General Assembly in September 2023. Forward Faster invites companies to make
commitments in five strategic areas (living wage, gender equality, climate action, water action and sustainable
finance) to accelerate the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and move closer to the
2030 Agenda.In 2023, following the earthquake disaster in Turkey, support was provided to earthquake victims in
coordination with Koç Holding and Group companies; social areas and container cities were established. In addition
to tents, food, blankets, clothes, heaters, stoves made from old washing machine drums, solar panels and
generators, more than 800,000 items of aid were delivered to the region. Arçelik Fixed Support Points continue to
provide hot meals and clean clothes.Partnership with Water.org made, to provide 10,000 Kenyans with access to
safe water or sanitation solutions; delivering safe water or sanitation solutions to more than 7,300 people in the
region in 2023.Launched the Global WE-inTech Program to empower the next generation of women engineers in 4
countries. The project, which aims to empower women in R&D and innovation in Turkey, Pakistan, South Africa and
Romania, reached 105 female engineering students in 2023.The Digital Wings project aims to provide technology
design, Information Technologies and software training to 100,000 girls between the ages of 10 and 14 in 81
provinces of Turkey by 2026. In 2023, 35,372 female students were reached in schools in 81 provinces.The
information conveyed in the Report belongs to Beko's parent company Arçelik.The 2023 Sustainability
Report can be reached fromhere. Please clickherefor the executive summary andherefor the Materiality Report
2023.ABOUT BEKOBekohas55,000employeesthroughout the world with its global operations through its
subsidiaries in57 countries and 45 production facilities in 13 countries(i.e. Türkiye, UK, Italy, Romania,
Slovakia, Poland, South Africa, Russia, Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, Thailand, and China).Bekohas22
brandsowned or used with a limited license (Arçelik, Beko, Whirlpool*, Grundig, Hotpoint, Arctic, Ariston*, Leisure,
Indesit, Blomberg, Defy, Dawlance, Hitachi*, Voltas Beko, Singer*, ElektraBregenz, Flavel, Bauknecht, Privileg,
Altus, Ignis, Polar).Bekobecame the largest white goods company in Europe with its market share (based on
volumes) and reached a consolidated turnover of EUR8 billionin 2023. Beko's31 R&D and Design Centers &

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 3
  Beko Takes 'Sustainability at Heart' and introduces 16th Sustainability Report, with the Motto 'Feels like Home'
                                to Urge Each Stakeholder to Start the Change at....

Officesacross the globe are home to over 2,200 researchers and hold more than 3,100 international registered
patent applications to date. For the 5th consecutive year, the highest score in the DHP Household Durables
industry (based on the results dated 27 October 2023) in theDow Jones Sustainability Indexof the S&P Global
Corporate Sustainability Assessment was achieved.** Beko's vision is "Respecting the World, Respected
Worldwide."www.bekocorporate.com*Licensee limited to certain jurisdictions.
**The data presented belongs to Arçelik A.Ş., a parent company of Beko.Infographic -
https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/2431056/Beko_2023_Sustainability_Report_Infographic.jpg
Photo -https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/2430987/Beko_Hakan_Bulgurlu.jpg
Logo -https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/2199066/Beko_Logo.jpg               View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/beko-takes-sustainability-at-heart-and-introduces-16th-
sustainability-report-with-the-motto-feels-like-home-to-urge-each-stakeholder-to-start-the-change-at-home-
302164769.htmlSOURCE Beko


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
