

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
     Media Tip Sheet: Recovery Mission Underway for 6 People Presumed Dead in Baltimore Bridge Collapse;
                                 NTSB Recovers Cargo Ship's Data Recorder




 Media Tip Sheet: Recovery Mission Underway for 6 People Presumed Dead
 in Baltimore Bridge Collapse; NTSB Recovers Cargo Ship's Data Recorder
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          March 27, 2024 Wednesday 2:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 650 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


George Washington University issued the following news:

WASHINGTON (March 27, 2024) -- A recovery mission is now underway for six construction workers who were on
the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore early Tuesday morning when a cargo ship struck the bridge, causing it to
collapse. The six people are presumed dead. Two others were recovered alive from the water, with one being
treated at a local trauma center. The National Transportation Safety Board Chair told NBC News that the agency
has recovered the ship's voyage data recorder.

Faculty experts at the George Washington University are available to offer insight, commentary and analysis on the
collapse and subsequent rebuilding process, search and research operation, and long-term impact on the port and
the region. If you would like to speak with an expert, please contact GW Senior Media Relations Specialist Cate
Douglass at [email protected].

Sameh S. Badie is a professor of civil and environmental engineering. Badie conducts research on reinforced and
prestressed concrete structures, with applications on buildings and highway bridges. His research includes
theoretical and experimental investigation. Badie has a significant amount of experience developing innovative
prestressed, precast, concrete deck panel systems for highway bridges. His experimental experience includes
testing full-scale concrete components, such as deck panel systems and prestressed concrete girders. Badie can
discuss the collapse and what rebuilding could look like down the road.

Kim Roddis is a professor emerita of civil and environmental engineering and a registered professional engineer
who has experience in heavy industrial and general commercial building design, as well as in bridge design. As a
structural engineer, her expertise and research interests include design, fabrication, and construction processes;
structural applications of artificial intelligence and computer-aided design; web-enhanced teaching; fatigue and
fracture in bridges; frame stability; and seismic steel connections. She is recognized nationally as an expert in

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
      Media Tip Sheet: Recovery Mission Underway for 6 People Presumed Dead in Baltimore Bridge Collapse;
                                  NTSB Recovers Cargo Ship's Data Recorder

distortion-induced fatigue of steel highway bridges and internationally as an expert on the application of artificial
intelligence and advanced computing methods to civil engineering problem solving.

Joseph Barbera is an associate professor of engineering management and systems engineering. Through the GW
Institute for Crisis, Disaster, and Risk Management, Barbera conducts research across a wide range of topics in
emergency management, risk management, and business continuity. Current and recent research focuses upon
large-scale incident (disaster) management, hazard risk assessments, public health hazard risk reduction,
collapsed-structure search strategies, and confined space medical interventions. He also focuses on healthcare
emergency management that is focused both on mass casualties and continuity of critical operations. Barbera can
speak to how a complex incident like this is managed and the huge and long-lasting impact for the Port of
Baltimore, the State of Maryland, and the east coast's North-South vehicle (commercial truck and passenger car)
traffic as it pertains to reopening the channel and recovery.

Sanjay Jain is an associate industry professor in the department of decision sciences. His research interests are in
the development and application of decision science techniques to complex systems with current focus on smart
manufacturing, supply chains and project management. Jain can discuss the national and international economic
impact of the collapse and other implications related to supply chains, shipping, etc. around the closure of this major
U.S. port.

-GW-

***

Original text here: https://mediarelations.gwu.edu/media-tip-sheet-recovery-mission-underway-6-people-presumed-
dead-baltimore-bridge-collapse-ntsb

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8549048 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 27, 2024


  
