

                                                                                                Page 1 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....




U.N.: Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock,
 Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual
                        General Assembly Session
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           January 4, 2024 Thursday 6:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 10878 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: NEW YORK

Body


The United Nations issued the following news release:

The international community "seems incapable of coming together" to respond to intensifying crises, pushing the
multilateral system into dysfunction and deadlock in a more fragmented world, the United Nations Secretary-
General warned this September at the annual high-level General Assembly debate.

Antonio Guterres told Heads of State and Government that the only way out of the current global state of spiralling
geopolitical tensions is through multilateralism. He emphasized that leaders must return to the principles upon
which the UN was established, saying that humanity is creeping "ever closer to a great fracture". The world needs
more "statesmanship, not gamesmanship and gridlock", he declared.

He highlighted the misery that the Russian Federation's invasion of Ukraine has unleashed and expressed deep
concern that nuclear disarmament is currently at a standstill. Across the Sahel, a series of coups is destabilizing the
region while terrorism gains ground. Meanwhile, the global humanitarian system is on the verge of collapse. The
world has much to do. For one, it must phase out coal, oil, and gas, with developed countries and emerging
economies reaching net zero in the next several decades. "We cannot effectively address problems as they are if
institutions don't reflect the world as it is," the Secretary-General stressed.

Dennis Francis (Trinidad and Tobago), President of the General Assembly's seventy-eighth session, similarly called
on Heads of State and Government to come together to address war, climate change, debt, poverty, and famine.
"These crises are directly impacting the lives and well-being of billions of people around the world," he stressed. On
Ukraine, he expressed concern over the continued violation of that country's territorial integrity, stressing: "We all
want this war to end". Further, speaking as a citizen of a climate-vulnerable region, he emphasized that Member
States must deliver concrete results. "We do not lack capacity," he said, adding: "What we lack is the will to act."

                                                                                                Page 2 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

In concluding remarks on the final day of the high-level debate on 26 September, Mr. Francis observed that the
Assembly had heard from 136 Heads of State and Government, as well as 40 ministers, of which 20 were women.
Noting progress made by Member States in pursuing his call "to act together, in solidarity", he praised a record
number of voices speaking at the UN. "We have it within us today to heal our divisions, find integrated solutions that
reflect our universal values and commitments, and usher in a brighter tomorrow," he added.

With the seventy-eighth session's theme "Rebuilding trust and reigniting global solidarity: Accelerating action on the
2030 Agenda and its Sustainable Development Goals towards peace, prosperity, progress and sustainability for all"
as a backdrop, Heads of State and Government expressed their worries and delineated their key areas of focus in
striving to achieve development targets. Many reiterated the Secretary-General's appeals for collaborative
measures to tackle the most pressing global crises, as they underscored that many challenges they face have
intensified and grown more complex in recent years.

Joseph R. Biden, President of the United States, said that there is hope; the world's overwhelming challenges can
be resolved. Deep wounds can heal if the international community stands together and recognizes the commonality
of humanity. He pledged that his country would continue to work to ensure that everyone has access to health care,
the environment is protected, and conflicts are resolved peacefully. "We know that our future is bound to yours," he
told the 193-member body as he recalled decades of remarkable progress. "We avoided the renewal of a global
conflict while lifting more than 1 billion people out of extreme poverty," he said. Expressing support for Ukraine, he
said that the Russian Federation alone stands in the way of peace, and urged those present to "stand up to this
naked aggression today and deter other would-be aggressors tomorrow".

Volodymyr Zelenskyy, President of Ukraine, speaking in the General Assembly Hall for the first time since the war
in Ukraine began, said that hatred, when weaponized against one nation, never stops there. Each decade the
Russian Federation has started a new war. Pointing out that parts of Georgia and the Republic of Moldova remain
occupied, he said that Moscow "has almost swallowed Belarus" and is threatening Kazakhstan and the Baltic
States. Many seats in the Hall "may become empty if Russia succeeds with its treachery", he warned.

Sergey V. Lavrov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, speaking several days later on 26
September, recalled how the West had committed to providing developing countries with $100 billion annually to
finance climate-mitigation programmes. These broken promises should be compared with the amounts that the
United States and its allies have sent to Kyiv -- "an estimated $170 billion since February 2022". Noting the
assurances given to Moscow regarding the non-expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), he
called the West an "empire of lies". A new world order is emerging and organizations like BRICS (Brazil, Russian
Federation, India, China, and South Africa) are gaining relevance while the United States continues to instigate
conflicts to divide humanity.

Several Heads of State and Government during the week-long debate expressed profound concern that powerful
countries are pushing closer to the brink of nuclear conflict. They worried that mounting distrust and divisions are
corroding the bedrock of international cooperation. The world is on a concerning trajectory as it emerges from the
most significant health emergency in a century amid deepening conflicts. A fractured global economy, skyrocketing
food and fuel costs, a looming climate crisis and heightened arms races are leading to widespread feelings of
disillusionment and cynicism among their citizenry, they warned.

Nanaia Mahuta, Minister for Foreign Affairs of New Zealand, said that for the first time in several generations, the
world faces the very real possibility of conflict between major Powers. "The stakes for all of us are simply too high,"
she said. International rule of law and the United Nations Charter must mean something. "Playing politics with
innocent lives is cruel and immoral," she stressed.

Han Zheng, Vice-President of China, said that nuclear war must be avoided. He called on the international
community to make global governance more just and equitable. China opposes hegemony, power politics,
unilateralism, and a cold war mentality. China "will never practice hegemony" and is firm in supporting the
international system with the UN at its core, he further pledged.

                                                                                                Page 3 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

Speakers used the high-level gathering as an opportunity to critique the current stagnant state of multilateralism,
pointing the finger at the fumbling inaction of the UN, and particularly the Security Council, which, they said, had
failed to act to preserve international peace and security.

Recep Tayyip Erdogan, President of Turkiye, said that the Council has ceased to be the guarantor of global security
-- instead, it has become a battleground for five countries. "The world is bigger than five and a fairer world is
possible," he said. The war in Ukraine must end through diplomacy. "We have been endeavouring to keep both our
Russian and Ukrainian friends around the table with a thesis that war has no winners and peace will have no
losers," he emphasized.

Seyyed Ebrahim Raisi, President of Iran, said that Western hegemony "no longer resonates with the realities of
today's world" and that the former liberal order has been "relegated to obsolescence". East-West divides should not
be permitted. Making trade corridors unsafe, stifling economic progress and fomenting proxy wars are actions that
are ironically conducted in the name of Western democracy but are "nothing more than a velvet glove hiding a cast-
iron hand", he added.

Felix-Antoine Tshisekedi Tshilombo, President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, echoing concerns
regarding the Security Council, said that the African people do not understand the double standards of the 15-
member body. This is particularly true in the forgotten Western Sahara, or Mozambique, the victim of deadly
terrorist attacks. For its part, his Government has called for moving up the withdrawal deadline of the United
Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (MONUSCO) from December 2024
to December 2023. It is time for Kinshasa to take full control of its destiny, he said.

Numerous other Heads of State and Government emphasized the need to address out-of-control economic
disparities plaguing countless people around the globe. Specifically, leaders of African nations took to the podium to
underscore that Africa continues to suffer from mass inequality. The world, especially wealthy and powerful
countries, must acknowledge that the continent's present-day economic and social woes relate to historical
injustices, they said.

Julius Maada Bio, President of Sierra Leone, stressed that ongoing threats to Africa's constitutional stability are
signs of deeper problems, ranging from past and present injustices to the burdens of poverty, widespread
unemployment, and discrimination. "The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development isn't merely an outline; it is a
solemn pact we've entered," he said. "We must lift our people from poverty."

Hage G. Geingob, President of Namibia, underscored what he called the "terrifying" gap between the wealthy and
the marginalized. Stressing the need to "end vaccine apartheid", he urged world leader to remove intellectual
property barriers and called for stronger commitments from wealthy nations on investments in manufacturing to
enable vaccine production in the Global South.

Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva, President of Brazil, echoing a similar sentiment, underscored the importance of reducing
inequality by including the poor in Government budgets and making the rich pay taxes proportional to their wealth. It
is alarming that global military spending totalled $2 trillion in 2022, with nuclear spending reaching $83 billion -- 20
times that of the regular UN budget, he also pointed out.

There was no shortage of Heads of State and Government who spoke out on the urgent need to tackle climate
change, as small island developing States and other countries in danger of climate change risk stressed that the
scourge is the most pressing of all emergencies. No meaningful climate action can take place in conditions of
financial distress, they also said, calling for improvements to be made in technical and financial partnerships
between the have and have-nots.

Russ Kun, President of Nauru, said that the adverse impacts of climate change are no longer a "future" problem.
The global community must expedite measures to keep a 1.5-C limit to temperature rise within reach. He went on to
say that Nauru, as the smallest UN Member State, wonders: "Will only the strong survive, or will we work to ensure
that no one is left behind?"

                                                                                                Page 4 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

Wesley Simina, President of the Federated States of Micronesia, implored all parties to the Paris Agreement on
climate change -- particularly major emitters -- to commit to emissions reductions of at least half by 2030 and peg
their net-zero goals no later than 2050. Eliminating methane and hydrofluorocarbon emissions, as well as other
short-lived climate pollutants from industrial products and activities, could reduce global warming by at least 0.5 C,
he said.

Lazarus McCarthy Chakwera, President of Malawi, like several other speakers vocalizing ways to make the global
economy even keeled, called for debt cancellation. "That's a decision you can make today so that the money being
drained by servicing debts can go towards rebuilding roads, schools, hospitals, businesses and livelihoods," he
emphasized. The world also needs to come together to begin pondering what a development paradigm beyond
2030 looks like.

As the General Assembly high-level debate continued, additional speakers seized the opportunity to bring attention
to the difficult circumstances faced by people enduring prolonged periods of conflict, displacement, and a lack of
access to human rights.

Abdullah II bin Al Hussein, King of Jordan, said that refugees make up over one third of his country's 11 million
people. Cuts to aid programmes have already thrown the lives of hundreds of thousands of those refugees into
uncertainty. But Jordan's case is a microcosm of the entire Middle East region, which, he warned, will continue to
suffer until the world "helps lift the shadow" of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. "Without clarity on where Palestinians'
future lies, it will be impossible to converge on a political solution to this conflict," he emphasized.

Anne Beathe Tvinnereim, Minister for International Development of Norway, speaking on the dire situation of so
many in Afghanistan, said that Oslo has engaged the de facto authorities in Kabul to help address the dire human
rights situation for women and girls, "who are being deprived of education and a future". She went on to stress that
"societies prosper when women and girls participate on an equal footing". The global community should "be
concerned that standards are slipping in many places", she said, urging: "This has to stop."

During high-level opening week, the Assembly also held several side events, including on 18 September a two-day
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Summit, where Heads of State and Government and high representatives
adopted a Political Declaration, reaffirming their commitment to end poverty and hunger, combat inequalities within
and among countries, and build peaceful societies.

The Secretary-General, addressing the opening segment, said that the "SDGs need a global rescue plan".
Welcoming the endorsement by the Political Declaration of the need to reform the outdated, dysfunctional, and
unfair international financial architecture, he stressed that "this can be a game-changer in accelerating SDG
progress". Assembly President Francis said that "with concerted, ambitious action, it is still possible that, by 2030,
we could lift 124 million additional people out of poverty and ensure that some 113 million fewer people are
malnourished".

Justin Pierre James Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada and Co-Chair of the Sustainable Development Goals
Advocates group, giving keynote remarks, said that nearly 50 per cent of SDG targets are moderately or severely
off track. But "it's just halftime -- we can do this," he told those present, adding: "The future is expecting us all to
meet this moment".

The General Assembly also held an event on universal health coverage on 21 September, with Member States
endorsing a Political Declaration proclaiming that every human being has the right to the highest attainable
standard of physical and mental health. Member States recognized that universal health coverage is fundamental to
achieving the SDGs, not only those related to health and well-being, but also those related to poverty eradication,
access to education, gender equality and building inclusive societies.

Speaking at that event, the Assembly President stated that every year millions of people fall into poverty because of
the cost of their health care. "Health and sustainable development are two sides of the same coin," he stressed.
Also at the event, Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus noted

                                                                                                Page 5 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

that 4.5 billion people are not covered by essential health services. This forces many of them to choose between
buying medicine or food.

On 20 September, in a first-ever General Assembly high-level meeting on pandemic preparedness, Heads of State
and Government adopted a Political Declaration calling for stronger international coordination to better prevent,
prepare for and respond to pandemics. The Assembly committed to working to make access to pandemic-related
products -- such as vaccines, diagnostics, and therapeutics -- timely and equitable, while calling on the WHO to
coordinate this with relevant partners.

Opening the day-long debate -- convened under the theme "Making the world safer: Creating and maintaining
political momentum and solidarity for Pandemic Prevention, Preparedness and Response" -- the Assembly
President said the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on economies and health systems would last for years to
come. "The reality is that we simply lacked preparation and responsiveness," he added. COVID-19 had revealed
that many developing countries were not able to care for their sick and organize work and education remotely.

In the Political Declaration, Member States expressed concern about "glaring inequalities" in access to vaccines
against COVID-19, noting that in December 2022, 22 per cent of people in low-income countries were fully
vaccinated compared with 75 per cent in high-income countries. Concerned by the hoarding of vaccines in rich
countries while the populations of poor ones are left behind, United Nations Under-Secretary-General Amina J.
Mohammed called for preventing such a situation by implementing the recommendations spelled out in the Political
Declaration.

Plenary

The General Assembly opened its seventy-eighth session on 5 September, with its newly elected President, Dennis
Francis (Trinidad and Tobago), calling on Member States to commit to advancing the causes of peace, prosperity
and sustainability in the face of a world beset by a series of cascading challenges.

In his opening address, he warned of the sharp geopolitical divides that have led "to a dangerous new era of
nuclear uncertainty" and encouraged the Assembly to ensure its efforts are anchored in a robust multilateral
system. Amid questions about whether the Security Council can fulfil its mandate, the Assembly's veto initiative is a
welcome innovation towards greater transparency and accountability, he observed.

The Sustainable Development Goals Summit will set the tone for the rest of the session, with States having to come
together on the three major health-related goals: tuberculosis eradication; pandemic prevention, preparedness and
response; and universal health coverage, he said. With a global population set to reach 9.5 billion by 2050, it is
imperative to transition to a mode of producing, consuming and living in equilibrium with all people, species and
ecosystems, he added. "The 'future we want' requires a pre-emptive nurturing of nature," he stressed, calling for a
high-level week and sessions agenda ensuring "that each of these gatherings culminates in meaningful,
transformative outcomes. That must be our modus operandi."

Amina Mohammed, United Nations Deputy Secretary-General, welcoming the incoming Assembly President on
behalf of the Secretary-General, said Mr. Francis's skills, experience, knowledge and wisdom will be essential
amidst the deep challenge and division that is testing the United Nations. "Despite profound global challenges, this
is not a moment for pessimism. This is a moment for action," she stressed, urging action for peace and human
rights, as well as rescuing the Global Goals, tackling climate change and expanding economic opportunity,
especially for women and young people.

On 8 September, the Assembly adopted its work programme for the session, deciding to include a range of new
items on its agenda, among them the "Agreement under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on
the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction" -- a
historic maritime biodiversity treaty adopted on 19 June by the Intergovernmental Conference on Marine
Biodiversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction.

                                                                                                Page 6 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

The Assembly further decided to include the "Question of the Comorian island of Mayotte", "The situation in the
temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine", "Agreement under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction",
"Report on the activities of the Ethics Office", "Observer status for the International Parliamentarians' Congress in
the General Assembly" and "Observer status for the Organization of Ibero-American States for Education, Science
and Culture in the General Assembly".

Following the Assembly's decision to include the item "The situation in the temporarily occupied territories of
Ukraine" on its agenda, the representative of the Russian Federation said her country distances itself from the
consensus on the report of the General Committee with respect to the recommendation to include that item on the
organ's agenda, which was adopted by the Committee by a vote by a minority of its members.

The Assembly decided to defer consideration of the agenda item "Question of the Malagasy islands of Glorieuses,
Juan de Nova, Europa and Bassas da India" to its seventy-ninth session and to include it in the provisional agenda
of that session.

After the Russian Federations veto to renew certain Security Council measures in Mali, the Assembly met on 11
September to consider the consequences for stability in that country. The Assembly President said that, against the
backdrop of rising insecurity and political and humanitarian crises in Mali, the 2015 Agreement for Peace and
Reconciliation "remains the only framework for achieving peace and stability" and urged Member States to
recommit to negotiations.

In the ensuing debate, held under the Assembly's standing mandate to convene within 10 working days of a veto
being cast in the Council, many Member States expressed concern over its use, particularly in the context of the
withdrawal of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA). Others,
however, underlined the need to respect Bamako's wishes.

The representative of the Russian Federation, explaining his delegation's use of the veto, advocated against
endless automatic extensions of sanctions regimes and noted that such measures should be reviewed regularly to
see if they reflect the situation on the ground.

The Assembly began its main session on 29 September, endorsing a political declaration adopted by world leaders
on 18 September during high-level week, reaffirming a commitment to lift millions out of poverty and fight extreme
hunger as pledged in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In the Assembly, speakers were divided over
language in the wide-ranging 10-page document which acknowledges that the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) are in peril. Cuba's delegate called the absence of a reference to unilateral coercive measures a "major
shortcoming". However, several speakers welcomed the Declaration's endorsement by consensus, with the
representative of the United Kingdom noting that there are just seven years to go before the 2030 target year.

Adopting three declarations on 5 October, the Assembly committed to tackling several major global health
challenges. By the terms of the text, the Assembly pledged to scale up efforts to strengthen regional and
international cooperation on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response, and making access to pandemic-
related products such as vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics more timely, sustainable and equitable. Through a
declaration on universal health coverage, the Assembly vouched to bolster efforts to achieve the health-related
Goals and universal health coverage by 2030. A third declaration, on tuberculosis, laid out commitments to increase
international cooperation to advance research and innovation.

On 10 October, the Assembly elected 15 Member States to the Geneva-based Human Rights Council by secret
ballot. The new members included Albania, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi, China, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Dominican
Republic, France, Ghana, Indonesia, Japan, Kuwait, Malawi and the Netherlands. All 15 members will serve three-
year terms beginning on 1 January 2024.

Stressing the importance of finding a path to peace through sustainable development, the Assembly on 16 October
debated the causes of conflict on the world's second-largest continent. More than a dozen delegates spoke of the

                                                                                                Page 7 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

importance of helping African countries realize the SDGs while combating violence and lawlessness, with several
speakers expressing a need for reform of the international financial system to alleviate Africa's crushing debt
burden. "If given the opportunity and with support from the international community, the continent would be indeed
unstoppable," said the Assembly President in his opening remarks, noting the severe debt crisis translates into the
loss of $500 to $600 billion annually, more than the gross domestic product (GDP) of 35 African countries
combined.

On 18 October, the Assembly heard from the first-ever female President of the International Residual Mechanism
for Criminal Tribunals, Graciela Gatti Santana, who told delegates that while the Mechanism has reached a critical
juncture, the conclusion of its in-court activity "does not mean we are closing down". The entity will keep fulfilling its
many mandated functions, including supervising the enforcement of sentences, tracking remaining fugitives, and
responding to national requests for assistance, she said. In the ensuing discussion, many speakers underscored
the crucial role played by the Mechanism and the tribunals in holding perpetrators of the most serious crimes
accountable and bringing justice to victims.

During the Tenth Emergency Special Session on "Illegal Israeli actions in occupied East Jerusalem and the rest of
the Occupied Palestinian Territory" on 26 October, the Assembly President condemned the killing of both
Palestinian and Israeli civilians and urged all parties to abide by international law and immediately allow for aid to
access the Gaza Strip. Denouncing Hamas' attack on Israel on 7 October and rejecting the taking of hostages, he
said the brutality of the assault is shocking and unacceptable and has no place in our world. However, "the right of
self-defence does not -- and cannot -- lawfully give license to undertake indiscriminate and disproportionate
reprisal," he added and expressed regret over the killing of UN personnel in Gaza.

The Permanent Observer for the State of Palestine called for a cessation of the bombing of Gaza, questioning how
some Member States could defend the war. "This is barbarism," he said. "Stop it for all those whose lives we can
still save." Hospitals have turned into morgues, and doctors and patients wonder if help is on the way, he said,
describing the confusion and fear of those ordered to evacuate. "What choices do you make as a parent when there
are only impossible choices, when death is everywhere?" he asked.

The representative of Israel said the 7 October massacre and what ensued has nothing to do with the Palestinians
or the Arab-Israeli conflict. "It is the law-abiding Israel against modern-day Nazis," he said, adding that his country is
at war with Hamas, which has one goal: to annihilate Israel and murder all Jews. Barbaric Hamas terrorists invaded
Israel from "the sea, the land and the air" with one purpose: to savagely murder every person they encountered, he
said.

Also on that day, the Assembly heard from Joan E. Donoghue, President of the International Court of Justice, the
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, who said that the growing docket reflects a wide variety of legal
disputes involving countries from every region of the world and questions concerning all of humanity. She detailed
several cases, including one involving the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment or Punishment, in which Canada and the Netherlands filed a joint application against Syria, and one
instituted by Ukraine regarding the Russian Federation on allegations of genocide and violations of the related
Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.

The following day, in a continuation of the Emergency Special Session, the Assembly adopted a resolution calling
for an immediate, sustained humanitarian truce leading to a cessation of hostilities and demanding the unhindered
provision of essential aid to civilians throughout the Gaza Strip.

By a recorded vote of 120 in favour to 14 against, with 45 abstentions, the Assembly adopted the resolution titled
"Protection of civilians and upholding legal and humanitarian obligations", demanding that all parties immediately
and fully comply with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law. The
Assembly failed to unequivocally reject and condemn the terrorist attacks by Hamas on 7 October by a recorded
vote of 88 in favour to 55 against, with 23 abstentions.

                                                                                                Page 8 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

The representative of Israel said the United Nations, founded in the wake of the Holocaust, "no longer holds even
one ounce of legitimacy or relevance". Israel just endured the largest massacre of Jews since the Holocaust but
has no right to defend itself, according to a majority of the so-called "Family of Nations", he said. "Why are you
defending terrorists that deliberately beheaded children and abducted babies?" he added. "Why are you not holding
Hamas accountable?"

The Permanent Observer for the State of Palestine expressed gratitude to all the countries that voted for the draft
resolution tabled by Jordan and co-sponsored by 46 countries, saying it proved that the international community
has not abandoned the Palestinian people in their darkest hours. The adoption of the resolution was a message
that most of the world stands with the people in Gaza, which is becoming a graveyard. "Do not let this happen," he
said. "Listen to your conscience."

Presenting the Assembly with the annual report from the International Criminal Court on 30 October, its President,
Piotr Hofmanski, described unacceptable and unprecedented threats and attacks by the Russian Federation. That
country placed the Court's Prosecutor, six judges and Mr. Hofmanski on a wanted list for criminal prosecution in
reaction to the Court's two arrest warrants related to the situation in Ukraine for the alleged unlawful deportation of
the population and the unlawful transfer of children from occupied areas of Ukraine to the Russian Federation.
Threatening behaviour and recent cyberattacks against the Court's information systems will not stop the Court from
carrying out its mandate, independently and impartially, he said. He also announced a major milestone: the first
completion of court-ordered reparations in the Katanga case, concerning crimes committed in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo in 2003, with reparations delivered through the Trust Fund for Victims to several hundred
people.

As the Assembly continued the emergency session on the situation in the Middle East the following day, many
Member States made urgent calls for a humanitarian ceasefire and the provision of adequate aid to civilians in
Gaza. The delegate of Yemen said the failure of the international community to stop the war is a "moral" one. "What
happened on 7 October 2023 is the result of continued Israeli occupation over the course of 75 years," he said. A
just and comprehensive peace is the only way to end this conflict and establish an independent and sovereign
Palestinian State based on the borders of 4 June 1967, with East Jerusalem as its capital. "Without this solution,
the region will know no stability," he warned.

Also on that day, Vaclav Balek, President of the Human Rights Council, told delegates that the Council's growing
workload reflects the importance and relevance of its work. Presenting the Organ's annual report, he detailed some
of the work done this past year, including the establishment of a fact-finding mission to investigate alleged human
rights violations in Iran related to the protests that began in September 2022. Regarding the human rights situation
in Haiti, Mr. Balek said that, following a request from the authorities there, the Council adopted a resolution to
provide aid and capacity-building.

Turning to country-specific resolutions, he reaffirmed the Council's recommendation that the Assembly submit
reports from the Commission of Inquiry on Syria to the Security Council for appropriate action and that, similarly,
regarding human rights in Myanmar, the Assembly submit the reports from the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights and the Special Rapporteur to relevant United Nations bodies, including the Security Council, for
consideration and appropriate action. He also noted the alarming rise in public acts of religious hatred such as
desecration of the Qur'an in Europe and elsewhere.

As the Assembly's emergency session on the situation in the Middle East entered its fourth day on 1 November,
Member States mourned the thousands of children killed in Gaza and repeated calls for a humanitarian ceasefire
and for more humanitarian aid to reach civilians. "Does the world still believe that what has been unfolding is in self-
defence?", asked Kuwait's delegate, noting that, on the day delegates voted to challenge the atrocities committed
by the Israeli occupation forces, the ground invasion of Gaza began.

"We recall with heavy hearts that boys and girls are half the population of Gaza and have lived their entire lives in a
zone under constant conflict and siege," said the representative of El Salvador. "Many ask themselves: 'Where is

                                                                                                Page 9 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

the United Nations?'", she said, calling for immediate action by the Security Council. Echoing that point, Lesotho's
delegate said the Council's repeated failure to pass a definitive resolution on the conflict erodes the confidence of
citizens around the world in the United Nations.

Also on that day, the Assembly began its annual debate on the "Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and
financial embargo imposed by the United States of America against Cuba", with an overwhelming number of
Member States underscoring the embargo's detrimental and long-lasting consequences for Cuba. Many cited the
Secretary-General's report saying the blockade has impacted Cuba's overall human development and recalling that
for 30 years, the Assembly has urged the United States to lift the embargo and allow Cuba to join the international
community on equal economic and financial footing.

In the afternoon, the Assembly resumed its discussion on the International Criminal Court, adopting by a recorded
vote of 115 in favour to 6 against (Belarus, Mali, Nicaragua, Russian Federation, Syria, Togo), with 31 abstentions,
the resolution titled "Report of the International Criminal Court", which calls on States parties to the Rome Statute --
the global pact that created the International Criminal Court at a conference in Rome in 1998 -- that haven't yet
adopted national legislation to implement obligations emanating from the Statute to do so and to cooperate with the
Court. By other terms, the Assembly called upon States not yet party to the Rome Statute to consider ratifying,
accepting or acceding to it without delay.

The following day, the Assembly concluded its debate of the Cuba embargo and adopted its annual resolution
calling for an end to the United States-led sanctions, with speakers stressing the urgency of that action considering
the global economic fallout from the COVID 19 pandemic, and the need to meet the Global Goals. Some
representatives raised concerns about the additionally damaging effects of the United States' inclusion of Cuba on
its list of State sponsors of terrorism. By a recorded vote of 187 in favour to 2 against (United States, Israel), with 1
abstention (Ukraine), the Assembly adopted the resolution titled "Necessity of ending the economic, commercial
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of America against Cuba". It was the thirty-first time the United
Nations voted to end the embargo.

The Assembly also concluded its emergency session on the situation in the Middle East, with many States
condemning Israel's bombardments of Gaza and demanding a humanitarian ceasefire and others continuing to call
for the release of hostages and expressing regret that the 193-member body was unable to condemn Hamas'
terrorist attacks on Israel.

Continuing its annual debate of the International Court of Justice on 3 November, Member States reiterated their
profound trust in the Court's integrity, independence and expertise with speakers pointing out that the Court's
expanding caseload demonstrates its growing significance. Many Member States commended the so-called "World
Court" for the key role it plays in ensuring the peaceful settlement of disputes and in clarifying the rules of
international law, praising the Court for keeping up with its growing workload.

On 7 November, as debate concluded for the session on the reports of the International Court of Justice and the
Human Rights Council, several speakers pointed out that the work of the two bodies has never been more
important, given the worsening conflicts and alleged human rights and international law violations. Several States
expressed hope the Court would look at Israel's possible violations of international law. The Indonesian
representative said it is disheartening to see some of the UN's founders not upholding international law, warning
that the world is heading towards an "international law abyss" with more rampant violations.

The following day, during the Assembly's annual consideration of the report of the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA), the Assembly heard from Rafael Mariano Grossi, the Agency's Director General, who presented the
annual report, containing a resolution titled "Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency", later adopted by the
Assembly. Concerning Ukraine, he detailed IAEA's presence at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, saying IAEA
conducted nine in-person missions to Ukraine in 2022 and facilitated the delivery of safety equipment to help
prevent a nuclear disaster. These efforts culminated in an agreement that led to a continuous IAEA presence at all

                                                                                              Page 10 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

of Ukraine's nuclear power plants. "The bottom line is that nuclear power plants should not become part of the
theatre of war," he said.

On Iran, he said IAEA verification and monitoring of Tehran's nuclear-related commitments under the Joint
Comprehensive Plan of Action have been seriously affected by that country's decision in February 2021 to stop
implementing them, including the Additional Protocol. This was exacerbated in June 2022 by Iran's decision to
remove all the IAEA's monitoring equipment previously installed in the country. Iran must resolve the IAEA's
questions concerning traces of man-made uranium identified at three undeclared locations, he said. On the
situation in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, he noted that the IAEA monitors that country's nuclear
programme from outside its borders. The continuation of its nuclear programme is a clear violation of UN Security
Council resolutions and is deeply regrettable, he said.

On 9 November, meeting concurrently with the Security Council, the Assembly elected five new judges for the
International Court of Justice in The Hague to begin their term 6 February 2024. Bogdan-Lucian Aurescu
(Romania), Hilary Charlesworth (Australia), Sarah Hull Cleveland (United States), Juan Manuel Gomez Robledo
Verduzco (Mexico) and Dire Tladi (South Africa) were elected by secret ballot, receiving an absolute majority of
votes by the 193-member Assembly. To ensure a degree of continuity, 5 of the Court's 15 judges are elected every
three years with judges eligible for re-election.

During a debate about revitalizing the work of the Assembly, its President said that many people feel "intense
frustration and disillusionment" amid growing conflict and economic uncertainty and that revitalization of the UN's
most democratic body is a political undertaking that requires commitment and courage to find solutions that
transcend "business as usual" and address the world's complex challenges.

On 14 November, the Assembly took up the Economic and Social Council's report and heard from the Council's
President, Lachezara Stoeva, who said that during the 2023 high-level political forum, countries expressed deep
concern that the Goals are "severely off-track", with progress slow, stalled or reversed. "As we look for
transformative pathways to achieve the SDGs, humanitarian emergencies keep pulling us back," she warned.
During that meeting, the Assembly also concluded its consideration of the resolutions regarding revitalization of its
work.

Two days later, the Assembly considered reform of the Security Council and during the annual debate on how to
reform the 15-nation organ, speakers reiterated calls to make the Council more representative, transparent and
accountable to address the most serious threats to international peace and security. Noting that the issue of its
reform has been on the Assembly's agenda for 44 years, speakers differed on the best approach, with some
delegates highlighting the need for more inclusive and representative membership and others arguing for limiting
the use of the veto.

During this meeting, Assembly also appointed or reappointed members to five of its subsidiary bodies, on the
recommendation of its Fifth Committee (Administrative and Budgetary): the Advisory Committee on Administrative
and Budgetary Questions (ACABQ), the Committee on Contributions, the Investments Committee, the Independent
Audit Advisory Committee and the Board of Auditors.

Concluding the debate on Council reform the following day, the Assembly heard from several who stressed that
unfair and outdated rules and processes are not relevant in today's world and paralyse the Council from taking
meaningful action. Ukraine's delegate said that it is inappropriate that permanent members have the privilege of the
veto in situations in which that country is directly involved as a party to conflict. The veto "should not serve as a
weapon of hatred and war". The representative of the Russian Federation countered that the veto has on more than
one occasion saved the UN from being "drawn into dubious adventures".

On 20 November, the Assembly filled vacancies in the Committee for Programme and Coordination and in the
Committee on Conferences. The Assembly also adopted the draft resolution titled "Commemoration of the twenty-
fifth anniversary of the United Nations Special Programme for the Economies of Central Asia", calling for the

                                                                                              Page 11 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

consistent involvement of the Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) and the Economic and Social Commission
for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) in further strengthening activities of the Special Programme.

The following day, in an unusual move, the Assembly voted on a draft resolution, normally adopted by consensus,
on sport as an enabler for sustainable development. Having called for the recorded vote on the resolution titled
"Building a peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal", the Russian Federation's delegate
expressed grave disappointment at the International Olympic Committee's decision to bar Russian athletes from
participating. By a recorded vote of 118 in favour to none against, with 2 abstentions (Russian Federation, Syria),
the Assembly adopted the text.

During a day-long meeting on the question of Palestine on 28 November, the Assembly President said the only
viable solution to break the cycle of conflict and suffering is through a two-State solution in line with the relevant
resolutions. "We are struck by the horror of what is happening now," said Senegal's speaker, referring to the
bloodshed in Gaza.

Introducing the annual report of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People,
Malaysia's representative, the Committee's Vice-Chair, said the text calls on Israel to reverse its ongoing
annexations, demolitions, settlement expansions and forced displacement of Palestinians. It also urges Israel to halt
its punitive measures against the Palestinian Authority and to protect Palestinian civilians, including from Israeli
settler violence, and the General Assembly and Security Council to ensure implementation of long-standing
parameters for peace.

The Israeli delegate said the systematic bias weaponized against her country at the United Nations is based on a
false narrative, which enables and encourages hatred and violence, calling the Committee's work a "textbook
definition of antisemitism". The Assembly also adopted a draft resolution titled "The Syrian Golan" demanding that
Israel withdraws from the occupied Syrian Golan and resume talks on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks, and respect
commitments reached during previous talks.

The following day, during its annual debate on global health, the Assembly designated 7 September as World
Duchenne Awareness Day, to be observed as a United Nations day every year, beginning in 2024. Over a dozen
speakers also debated best practices to fight tuberculosis, noting its increase during the COVID 19 pandemic, when
resources were diverted to fighting the coronavirus.

On 4 December, the Assembly acted on the recommendations of its First Committee (Disarmament and
International Security) and adopted 62 resolutions and decisions, 41 by recorded vote -- including many which
required several rounds of voting -- as delegates contested with a strained nuclear non-proliferation regime,
unpredictable geopolitical context and complex challenges to peace, compliance and prohibited weapons' use. All
sought to bolster a deteriorating global security situation amid growing threats posed by, among others, the use of
nuclear and other mass destruction weapons and misuse of information and communications technologies.

The same day, the Assembly, highlighting the cumulative pressures on the world's waters, adopted the draft
resolution "Oceans and the law of the sea", reaffirming the vital importance of the Convention on the Law of the Sea
and recognizing the crucial role of international cooperation in combating threats to maritime security. By other
terms of the text, the Assembly noted with concern the impacts of climate change on the ocean and cryosphere to
which low-lying islands are especially exposed. The 193-member Assembly also adopted by consensus a
resolution titled "Sustainable fisheries, including through the 1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the
Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, and related
instruments".

On 7 December, acting on the recommendations of its Fourth Committee (Special Political and Decolonization) and
Sixth Committee (Legal), the Assembly today adopted a total of 50 resolutions and 13 decisions on items ranging
from decolonization and the question of Palestine to the work of the International Legal Commission and restrictions
on United Nations staff members from certain missions.

                                                                                              Page 12 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

The following day, the Assembly adopted three resolutions to strengthen its beleaguered relief system which
struggles to aid millions of people in need, with many speakers voicing grave concern about the effects of ongoing
conflicts, political instability and the effects of climate change. Spain's delegate, introducing the resolution "Safety
and security of humanitarian personnel and protection of United Nations personnel" on behalf of the European
Union, in its capacity as observer, said the UN's humanitarian staff operate in an increasingly volatile environment
at enormous personal risk. "We have a moral duty to mitigate the risk that they are facing," she said.

By the terms of the text, the Assembly reaffirmed the principles of its landmark resolution 46/182 of December 1991
and strongly urged all States to ensure the safety of humanitarian and United Nations personnel, to respect the
inviolability of UN premises, and to take stronger action to ensure crimes against humanitarian and UN personnel
are investigated fully and effectively. The delegate of the Russian Federation introduced two amendments to that
resolution, arguing for the removal of paragraphs concerning the International Criminal Court, an instrument of
political pressure and a "slave for Western donors", he said. The amendments did not pass.

In adopting the 20-page resolution titled "Strengthening of the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance
of the United Nations", the Assembly asked the UN's Emergency Relief Coordinator to strengthen coordination and
accountability within the humanitarian response system, and the Secretary-General to strengthen support provided
to coordinators and country teams. Adopting the draft resolution titled "International cooperation on humanitarian
assistance in the field of natural disasters, from relief to development", the Assembly stressed the need to ensure
that international responses to natural disasters are tailored to the local context.

The Assembly also adopted a resolution titled "Assistance to the Palestinian People", with many delegates noting
the desperate humanitarian situation in Gaza. By the terms of the resolution "Assistance to the Palestinian People",
the Assembly stressed that a durable ceasefire agreement must lead to a fundamental improvement in the living
conditions of the Palestinian people in Gaza and the safety and well-being of civilians on both sides. It also stressed
the urgency of reaching a durable solution to the crisis in Gaza through the full implementation of Security Council
resolution 1860 (2009).

During a resumption of its tenth Emergency Special Session on Illegal Israeli actions in Occupied East Jerusalem
and the rest of the Occupied Palestinian Territory on 12 December, the Assembly adopted a resolution demanding
an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza and reiterating its insistence that parties to the conflict in Gaza
comply with international law, that all hostages be released immediately and without conditions, and that
humanitarian access be ensured.

The resolution titled "Protection of civilians and upholding legal and humanitarian obligations" passed by a recorded
vote of 153 in favour to 10 against (Austria, Czech Republic, Guatemala, Israel, Liberia, Federated States of
Micronesia, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, United States), with 23 abstentions. Prior to adopting the text,
the Assembly failed, by a recorded vote of 89 in favour to 61 against, with 20 abstentions, to adopt an amendment
introduced by Austria, which inserted "held by Hamas and other groups" after "hostages" and "immediate" after
"ensuring". The Assembly also failed, by a recorded vote of 84 in favour to 62 against, with 25 abstentions, to adopt
an amendment introduced by the United States, which added an unequivocal condemnation of heinous terrorist
attacks by Hamas that took place in Israel starting 7 October and the taking of hostages.

"Right now, what we are seeing is an onslaught on civilians, the breakdown of humanitarian systems and profound
disrespect for both international law and international humanitarian law," the Assembly's President said in his
opening remarks. "The carnage must stop." Israel's delegate, speaking after the vote, said the adopted resolution
will prolong death and destruction. "What will happen the day after the ceasefire?", he asked. By voting in favour of
the disgraceful resolution, Member States supported terrorists and the exploitation of Palestinians, he said.
Tunisia's delegate expressed concern about Security Council inaction on the issue. "The Council is clearly unable
to shoulder its responsibilities, both moral and legal," he said, noting his delegation voted for the draft resolution, as
it calls for a humanitarian ceasefire and end to the barbaric aggression against Palestinian civilians. "These attacks
have led to unprecedented humanitarian tragedies," he said.

                                                                                              Page 13 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

On 15 December, the Assembly continued its tenth Emergency Special Session on Illegal Israeli actions in
Occupied East Jerusalem and the rest of the Occupied Palestinian Territory, with speakers explaining their vote on
the resolution passed three days earlier or taking part in the general debate.

The representative of Israel, recalling the 7 October atrocities in his country of rape and mutilation, burning of entire
families alive and beheading of babies, said that a ceasefire will only allow Hamas to regroup, rearm and continue
its reign of terror. "You don't give a damn about Israel and our future," he said.

The Permanent Observer for the State of Palestine described the Israeli assault as a war against Palestinian history
and existence, saying that Israel deliberately targets homes, hospitals, mosques and churches to kill doctors, poets
and academics, as well as those who would document the crime and inform the world -- the journalists.

Malta's delegate highlighted the disproportionate suffering of children in Gaza, "their future seemingly buried under
the rubble," she said. "We recognize Israel's right to protect her people, but all actions must be in line with
international humanitarian law." Spain's delegate struck another note, underscoring that the resolution's text should
have included a clear condemnation of Hamas.

To complete the main part of its current session by year's end, the Assembly on 18 December adopted eight
resolutions, covering issues that included promotion of interreligious and intercultural dialogue, safe water and
sanitation in health-care facilities, sustainable use of oceans and security challenges posed by synthetic drugs.

Mexico's delegate introduced two amendments to A/78/L.24, the draft resolution on enhancing action at the
national, regional and international levels to address the global public health and security challenges posed by
synthetic drugs, emphasizing that the text failed to reference the only resolution on the subject passed by the
Assembly, namely "Addressing and countering the world drug problem through a comprehensive, integrated and
balanced approach" (77/238). Amendment A/78/L.31 added the reference to preambular paragraph 8 of the draft.
The second amendment, A/78/L.32, proposed to incorporate a reference to distribution in illicit consumer markets.

The Assembly took on board the first amendment to A/78/L.24 by a recorded vote of 75 in favour to 27 against, with
36 abstentions, and rejected the second amendment by a recorded vote of 19 in favour to 36 against, with 82
abstentions. The resolution, as amended, was adopted without a vote.

On 19 December, acting on the recommendations of its Second Committee (Economic and Financial) and Third
Committee (Social, Humanitarian and Cultural), the General Assembly adopted a total of 99 resolutions and 3
decisions on items ranging from permanent sovereignty of the Palestinian people and eradicating poverty to
combating glorification of Nazism and the plight of refugees.

On 20 December, the Assembly met to commemorate the late Emir of Kuwait, Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-
Sabah, who passed away on 16 December. Thanking the speakers for their sincere words and condolences,
Kuwait's representative said that history books will "faithfully pay tribute to the memory of a just leader whose name
and reign have been testimony to everything that is noble".

Later that day, the Assembly once more resumed its tenth Emergency Special Session on Illegal Israeli actions in
Occupied Jerusalem and the rest of the Occupied Palestinian Territory, with several delegates underscoring Israel's
right to self-defence within the parameters of international law and others arguing that the continued Israeli
occupation is a threat to Middle East stability and security.

The main part of the Assembly session ended on 22 December with the adoption of almost 20 texts recommended
by its Fifth Committee (Administrative and Budgetary), among them a $3.3 billion regular budget to fund the
Organization's 2024 programmes, creation of a financial mechanism for the Peacebuilding Fund, resources to
implement Human Rights Council mandates and $717.73 million to keep 37 special political missions operating. As
in past years, several delegates renewed calls for the creation of a separate budget to address the financial
requirements of these missions.

                                                                                              Page 14 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

First Committee

It was a session of opposing draft resolutions and a retrenchment of narrow positions in the First Committee
(Disarmament and International Security). The language of the debates was sobering amid challenges to
compliance, prohibited weapons' use, and even the durability of the non-proliferation regime. Softening the ground
diplomatically for future concrete actions in disarmament is at the heart of the Committee's work, yet of the 62 draft
texts approved, only 21 were adopted without a vote. It took 148 recorded votes to approve the rest. A record-
breaking 151 delegations spoke during the general debate and there was an all-time high of 375 interventions
during thematic discussions across nuclear and other mass destruction weapons, outer space, conventional
weapons, other disarmament measures, regional disarmament and the UN disarmament machinery. There were
nearly 150 statements in right of reply, not counting additional interventions.

Growing geopolitical tensions, including the wars in Ukraine and Gaza, scuttled consensus and strained the peace
and security architecture on which disarmament treaties are built. Addressing the Committee at the start of its
general debate was the UN Under-Secretary-General and High Representative for Disarmament Affairs, Izumi
Nakamitsu, who said, "There has not been a time since the depths of the cold war that the risk of a nuclear weapon
being used has been so high and, at the same time, the regime intended to prevent such use so fragile." Trust is
lacking and dialogue is scarce, she said. Multilateralism was indeed put to the test, and, it was noted, few tangible
gains have been made. It was generally agreed, as Brazil's speaker said, that "multilateralism is not living its finest
hour". Lebanon's speaker said that if the world drops its commitment to multilateralism for unilateralism, "we risk
sliding back on a terrible trail that has been tread before, and its end is well known".

"The doomsday clock now stands at 90 seconds to midnight -- the closest to global catastrophe it has ever been,"
said Liechtenstein's representative, condemning the Russian Federation's nuclear sabre-rattling in the context of its
aggression against Ukraine and denouncing its decision to deploy nuclear weapons to Belarus. The Russian
Federation's delegate defended his country's position, claiming that Western countries failed to address Moscow's
security concerns. Speakers questioned the logic of nuclear deterrence. Austria's delegate said that a security
paradigm based on that theory is "neither sustainable nor morally acceptable or legitimate" and puts the security of
nuclear-weapon States above the security of everyone else. "We simply never know if nuclear deterrence works in
any particular crisis, but we do know for sure that it can fail," he said.

"The dream of disarmament, a world free from the looming spectre of nuclear annihilation and unchecked violence,
seems to be slipping further from our grasp," said Ghana's delegate, describing the new Treaty on the Prohibition of
Nuclear Weapons as a significant milestone. While the nuclear Powers, among others, have chosen not to join it, its
existence serves as a ray of hope for disarmament advocates worldwide, she said. Some States insisted on a
gradual approach to disarmament. "There is no shortcut to nuclear disarmament," Hungary's delegate said,
advocating for an incremental approach involving steps that yield solid results. She urged the active exploration of
avenues to achieve progress in strategic nuclear risk reduction, transparency, confidence-building and robust
verification mechanisms. Several delegations, meanwhile, traded allegations over non-compliance with treaties
banning other weapons of mass destruction, such as biological and chemical weapons, weapons which many
deemed "morally repugnant" and a "breeding ground" for terrorists.

Emerging challenges to security, including the risk of outer space being militarized, also informed the debates.
Positions hardened over divergent approaches to preventing an outer space arms race. One approach, led by the
United Kingdom, promoted responsible behaviours through voluntary commitments and the other, led by the
Russian Federation, called for an early start of negotiations on a legally binding instrument. Among those
expressing concerns about parallel processes was Mexico's delegate, who urged the authors of the conflicting texts
to cooperate in achieving a unified proposal, in order to avoid duplication that leads to inefficient resource use and
aggravates polarization and fragmentation.

There were warnings that the window of opportunity to enact guardrails against the perils of autonomous weapons
and the military applications of artificial intelligence are rapidly closing, as the world prepares for a "technological
breakout". Cyber issues have become strategic foreign policy matters of urgent concern to all countries, said

                                                                                              Page 15 of 16
   U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                            to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....

Australia's representative. Sri Lanka's delegate said that while humankind's creativity is well known, its ability to
self-destruct through that creativity and the pursuit of short-term self-interest is also known. "We can ill afford
misadventures that peril our very existence," he said.

The proliferation of small arms and light weapons deserves no less attention than the dangers posed by weapons of
mass destruction, said Turkiye's representative. Bangladesh's speaker expressed concern about the more than
200,000 civilian deaths every year due to the use of small arms in conflict situations, while Mauritania's delegate
likewise said that the proliferation of 1 billion small arms around the world is the greatest threat to peace and
sustainable development.

On regional security and disarmament, many speakers commended the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free
zones in Africa, Central Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, South-East Asia and the South Pacific, and called
for one in the Middle East. Iran's representative said that the Israeli regime's nuclear weapons remain a grave
threat and obstruct the establishment of such a zone in the region. Israel's delegate said that his country continues
to support the global non-proliferation regime, but the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty itself does not provide a
remedy for the security challenges of the region or the repeated Treaty violations by Syria and Iran.

Frustration mounted regarding the persistent deadlock in the UN disarmament machinery, and the need to push
through it was a common refrain. Speakers urged concrete solutions to ensure that the disarmament machinery is
"fit for purpose" to manage the threats in traditional and new domains. Many deplored the decades-long failure of
the Geneva-based Conference on Disarmament -- the sole body mandated to negotiate legally binding
disarmament agreements -- to even agree on a programme of work. The delegate from the Netherlands said that
there is not much wrong with the disarmament machinery itself. "Of course, every machine needs a drop of oil and
some regular maintenance, or it risks breaking down," he said, adding, however, that the main issue is "not the
state of the machine, but the way the different operators behave".

Rytis Paulaukas (Lithuania) chaired the First Committee. Serving as Vice-Chairs were Yaseen Lagardien (South
Africa), Matias Andres Eustathiou de los Santos (Uruguay) and Christine Nam (New Zealand). Heidar Ali Balouji
(Iran) was the Rapporteur.

Second Committee

Amid a complex and volatile geopolitical landscape, the Second Committee (Economic and Financial) heard during
its seventy-eighth session that developing States face compounding crises of onerous debt, extreme poverty and
the costs of climate change -- and "business as usual is not viable" in steering the dangerously off-track SDGs back
towards progress.

Opening the session with that note of warning, Li Junhua, Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social
Affairs, stressed that the international community is on track to achieve only around 15 per cent of SDG targets.
"There is a broad agreement that the status quo is not sustainable," he underscored, encouraging the Committee to
forge new commitments to catalyse much-needed SDG-aligned investments. He recalled that world leaders at the
SDG Summit (18-19 September) laid out a rescue plan for the Goals, having also recognized that the 1.5 C climate
target is still within reach if action is taken now. He further noted that truly inclusive and more effective international
tax cooperation can significantly support efforts to fight illicit financial flows, increase domestic resource
globalization and support climate action. He further called for support to public-private partnerships, as well as Sou

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8430644 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 5, 2024

                                                                                           Page 16 of 16
U.N. : Secretary-General Urges Statesmanship to End Geopolitical Deadlock, Warning Humanity 'Ever Closer
                         to a Great Fracture', at Opening of Annual General Asse....



