

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 4
              House Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Rep. Donalds




      House Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee Issues Testimony
                               From Rep. Donalds
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          January 18, 2024 Thursday 9:10 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 946 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment issued the
following testimony by Rep. Byron Donalds, R-Florida, at a member day hearing on Jan. 11, 2024, on the Water
Resources Development Act:

***

Thanks for the invitation to testify.

Three topics that I want to discuss today.

1. Water Quality

2. Transportation

3. Nuclear Energy

I represent Florida's 19th District which covers Lee and Collier County, in Southwest Florida.

My district is full of environmental treasures--such as white sandy beaches, lakes, rivers, streams, creeks--not to
mention the wide variety of unique aquatic specimens that call these water bodies home.

The quality of water impacts my constituents and our local economy on a daily basis.

Hence why water is my office's number one priority.

I want to make the Committee aware of a few bills that I'm leading to improve water quality in my district and around
the United States.

                                                                                                Page 2 of 4
            House Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Rep. Donalds

First, I introduced the Water Quality & Environmental Innovation Act on a bipartisan basis with Rep. Gottheimer
from New Jersey.

This bill takes unused funding that lacks a designated purpose from EPA's Motor Vehicle and Engine Compliance
Program for the purpose of issuing grants and contracts to fund projects that seek to use emerging technologies to
combat water quality related-challenges.

Innovative technologies may include: artificial intelligence, robotics, distributed ledger technology, eDNA,
quantum, etc.

This bill takes an outside-the-box approach to remedy potential water quality concerns, such as:

Harmful algal blooms, sea-level rise, acidification, accumulation of trash and plastics, etc.

* Urge the Committee to consider this bill:

Next, I previously introduced another bipartisan bill called the Combat Harmful Algal Blooms Act.

This bill is simple: it adds "harmful algal blooms" to be eligible for major disaster funding under the Stafford Act.

Illustrate the economic impacts of HABs in Lee County, FL

* Lee County Fishing industry=$618 million value

Economic loss expected from a HAB=$195 million

* Lee County Coastal Economic Output=$11.1 billion

Economic loss expected from a HAB=$3 billion.

* Lee County Property Value Near the Coast=$19.1 billion

Economic loss expected from a HAB=$3.8 billion.

The economics of HABs speak for themselves

Providing federal major disaster funding to recover from severe HAB outbreaks will be vital for my district in the
years to come

Plus this bill doesn't automatically allocate disaster funding for every harmful algal bloom, but instead allows FEMA
to consider allocating funding based on the individual HAB circumstance.

Plus, this bill is broadly cosponsored by 15 bipartisan members of the Florida delegation.

Urge the Committee to consider this bill.

Also to note, I'll be introducing a bill in the near future called the Convert HABs to Fuel Act--which is another bill that
takes a unique approach to combating FL's water quality challenges.

Briefly, this bill builds upon the Army Corps.' "HABITATS" program to take aquatic algae biomass and convert such
algae into alternative fuels (biofuels).

As a Floridian, I welcome any opportunity to turn oranges into orange juice--and this bill incorporates a similar train
of thought.

Next, I urge the committee to consider another bipartisan bill I introduced called the Short Line Railroad Relief Act.

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 4
             House Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Rep. Donalds

There are approximately 600 short line freight railroads in the United States--most being owned & operated by small
businesses.

Seminole Gulf Railway is FL-19's only short line

This specific short line railroad suffered "catastrophic damage" following Hurricane Ian

Time is of the essence after a disaster hits, and this bill authorizes a program for the DOT Secretary to issue grants
& contracts to expeditiously provide much-needed capital to repair severely damaged rail infrastructure &
equipment.

Urge the Committee to consider this bill.

Finally, I've introduced several bills relating to nuclear energy this Congress--a few that have been referred to your
Committee.

Nuclear is the cleanest energy option in America's energy arsenal.

Nuclear is a bipartisan issue.

Specifically, I introduced a bill that would require the development of a national strategy to deploy nuclear
microreactors after natural disasters hit.

FL-19 knows all about natural disasters.

In addition to diesel generators, it would be beneficial to have the option to utilize portable microreactors as well.

We must proactively plan for the deployment of this next-generation nuclear technology

Urge the Committee to consider this bill.

Finally, I'd like to leave the Committee with this innovative thought:

Across the street from this hearing room is the U.S. Capitol Power Plant.

This facility provides chilled water and high-temperature steam to the U.S. Capitol Complex.

Many don't know that this facility previously was powered by coal.

Today, we're seeing many coal facilities being retired (unfortunately), and there's currently a huge opportunity to
revitalize retired coal facilities with advanced nuclear technology due to the compatibility of such energy
infrastructure.

Now imagine the statement Congress could make to the nuclear industry, American communities, and the world if
we look into utilizing advanced nuclear reactors to power the United States Capitol.

In fact, I have a bill that would look into the feasibility of doing just that (called the U.S. Capitol Power Plant Retrofit
Act).

Urge the Committee to consider this bill.

Thank you Chairman Graves for considering my legislative initiatives.

***

Original text here: https://transportation.house.gov/uploadedfiles/byron_donalds_testimony_wrda_member_day.pdf

Copyright Targeted News Services

                                                                                               Page 4 of 4
           House Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Rep. Donalds

MSTRUCK-8448247 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 18, 2024


  
