

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 6
   New to The Street Announces Episode 551, Five Corporate Interviews, Airing on the FOX Business Network ,
                                Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT




New to The Street Announces Episode 551, Five Corporate Interviews, Airing
 on the FOX Business Network, Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              January 26, 2024 Friday 7:55 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CALENDAR OF EVENTS
Length: 3356 words

Body


NEW YORK, Jan. 26, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- FMW Media's New to The Street, a national TV show,
announces episode 551, airing on the FOX Business Network on Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

New to The Street's 551st episode line-up features the following Five (5) Corporate interviews:

1). Biopharmaceutical -Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.'s (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP) interview with David Luci,
President/CEO.

2). Financial Marketplace Strategies – Blue Castle Ventures LTD's ($BCVD) interviews with David Rojas,
CEO/Founder.

3). Decentralized Supercomputing – Dynex's (CRYPTO: DNX) ($DNX) interview with Clifford Mapp, an Independent
Technology Expert and Blockchain Pioneer.

4). Sustainable Solutions - The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) interview with Tony
Raynor, CEO and Founder.

5). "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO,
Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®).

Episode 551

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 6
   New to The Street Announces Episode 551, Five Corporate Interviews, Airing on the FOX Business Network ,
                                Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King from the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio talks with David Luci, the
President/CEO of Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP). As a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical
business, ACXP is developing a new class of antibiotics for life-threatening bacterial infections. David updates
viewers on the Company's FDA Phase 2 clinical trial on the Ibezapolstat drug, a treatment for patients with
Clostridioides difficile Infections (CDI). Based on positive data from Phase 2a and Phase 2b, management is now
going forward with the FDA Phase 3. The Company compared its top-line data with the currently used standard-of-
care drugs in the marketplace, and Ibezapolstat has impressive positive results. Phases 2a and 2b confirmed that
the drug had success in 25 out of 26 patients, approximately 94% success with no reinfections. In treated patients,
the microbiome bacteria found in the digestive tract shows the bacteria maintaining and restoring itself within those
patients after a 10-day treatment. At a recent microbiome conference presentation in Texas, the Company
compared logarithmic results from a competitor drug (vancomycin) to that of its Ibezapolstat drug, showing the
differences in the effects on gut microbiome bacteria. Competitor drugs have been used for decades to treat CDI,
but the reinfection rates are very high and greatly diminished gut microbiome bacteria. ACXP's Ibezapolstat study
results have shown to combat reinfections effectively. Based on the data and other publications regarding the
market size for newly discovered and effective treatment of CDI, ACXP believes Ibezapolstat could be a market
worth over $1B. Decades-old antibacterial drugs are not working due to changes in the molecular composition of
CDI. Thousands of people worldwide die annually, with many catching CDI in hospitals and nursing homes. Acurx
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. believes its Ibezapolstat drug is the next generation for effectively treating CDI. Throughout
2024, Investors and others should expect more exciting news about Ibezapolstat and other positive corporate
ongoings. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. -
https://www.acurxpharma.com/.

Blue Castle Ventures, Ltd.'s ($BCVD) ("Blue Castle") Chief Executive Officer / Founder David Rojas talks with New
to The Street's TV Host Jane King about the Company. As a leading strategic developer of financial products and
educational services, Blue Castle Ventures, LTD is gaining brand recognition as a unique financial platform
assisting its clients in their investment objectives and creating new innovative product/service verticals. In 2024, the
Company will update its technology framework to allow more customers to access product and service options.
David says Blue Castle is establishing itself in the US market and working on necessary regulatory approvals. More
financial courses are becoming available for its clients to help provide more financial educational platforms,
assisting clients to meet their financial objectives. The Company expects to continue to grow its client base from its
asset-backed financial products, financial educational training courses, mortgages, digital art marketing, and other
services. Blue Castle sees forthcoming upside demand from its AI (Artificial Intelligence) platform in the care-for-
elders and anti-aging technology. The Company looks at current market trends and determines if entering other
business verticals can meet clients' demands and generate profits. Blue Castle Ventures, Ltd. does not trade
cryptocurrencies nor carry out transactions or investments with cryptocurrencies. All the Company's operations are
in US dollars. The Company's blockchain, $BCVD, is a cryptography and security system. The on-screen QR code
is available during the show; download or visit Blue Castle Ventures, Ltd. - https://bluecastleventures.ca/.

From the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio, Clifford Mapp, an independent technology expert and blockchain pioneer, talks
about Dynex (CRYPTO: DNX) ($DNX) with New to The Street's TV Host Jane King. Clifford explains Dynex’s
technology platform that can provide supercomputing services to everyone and every industry at a fraction of the
cost. Dynex offers a decentralized supercomputer platform, disrupting the supercomputing hardware and software
legacy industries. Using a neuromorphic blockchain-based algorithm on its DynexSolve Chip, Dynex creates
quantum-level computation services that can solve complex problems. Clifford says that neuromorphic networks
use logical gateways to process information, mimicking the human brain in collecting and understanding
information. Dynex Marketplace is a decentralized platform where anyone can access the system, end-users pay
Dynex according to the time needed to process a computational outcome. Generally, Clifford states that it costs
about $8 for a 3–5-minute runtime on their system, is very affordable, and results provide valuable data. An
automotive company uses Dynex for a virtual reality wind tunnel. Instead of paying millions of dollars for
construction, maintenance, and administrative costs for a wind tunnel, the automotive engineers engage Dynex
supercomputer services to create cost-effective and timely produced datasets on automotive designs. The medical
and pharmaceutical industries can benefit from Dynex, giving information on cancer, genetics, blood, and drug use

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 6
   New to The Street Announces Episode 551, Five Corporate Interviews, Airing on the FOX Business Network ,
                                Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

outcomes. A pharmaceutical company could use the Dynex in a matter of minutes to see data on how the human
body maintains itself after a 10-year drug use. The financial industry is another example that can make immediate
computations on stock market forecasting and other financial stats. The Company has an entire staff of
professionals to manage and support any clients who need to formulate a problem-solving solution on the system.
Dynex Neuromorphic Computing platform is decentralized, allowing for complex computations without expensive
infrastructures and providing cost-effective outcomes. The on-screen QR code is available during the show;
download or visit Dynex - https://dynexcoin.org/.

On New to The Street, The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) Tony Raynor, CEO and
Founder, talks with TV Host Jane King from the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio. SGTM is revolutionizing sustainability
using cutting-edge technology, converting waste into viable products. Agricultural companies can meet their
sustainability goals using SGTM's products and services. Tony explains to the viewers the relationship between
SGTM and VRM BioLogik Group and how the partnership has grown, integrating VRM's technology and SGTM's
manufacturing capabilities. Over the last forty years, VRM has developed "Zero-Net" carbon sequestration
technologies that can help make a positive environmental impact on the plant. HumiSoil is one VRM product that
granted SGTM exclusive rights to manufacture and market the product in North America, Central America, South
America, and the Caribbean Islands. Many countries look at the technologies and products for food security needs.
With multiple projects and pilot programs, its office in Dubi continues with governmental inquiries and initiatives to
provide unique solutions in converting waste into nutrients to assist agricultural outputs. The Company participated
in the COP 28 event held in Dubai, where they showcased innovative solutions for reversing climate change. A
technologically advanced product, HumiSoil is a mix of humus and a catalyst that can restore soil's organic
nutrients and create water hydration. When applied, it dramatically improves crop yields. In 2023, SGTM stockpiled
HumiSoil inventories to aggressively market the product throughout 2024. SGTM-VRM, LLC, is a wholly-owned
subsidiary with the "Master License" to deploy VRM's intellectual properties into manufactured sustainable product
lines. The objective in 2024 is to scale operations from pilot programs to full-scale marketing and sales in the USA
and globally. The Company has a YouTube channel with many informative videos about the Company and its
sustainable initiatives. The on-screen QR code is available during the shows: The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. -
https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/.

New to The Street airs its "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – The Weekly Hack" segment. Alain Ghiai, an
internationally acclaimed internet privacy expert and the CEO of Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE:
SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®) talks with TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry about a recent
mortgage company data breach. Mr. Cooper, one of the largest mortgage lenders, reported a breach in stolen data
on approximately 15 million customers. The stolen data includes names, addresses, social security numbers,
account numbers, dates of birth, and phone numbers. Mr. Cooper sent letters to its customers offering free
monitoring services to help notify clients if someone is using their stolen data in the future. Alain believes that the
cyber security breach occurred from an email account. 87% of cyber issues stem from emails, especially on free,
Big Tech platforms. Many larger corporations use Big Tech platforms for their IT needs, which unfortunately have
limited countermeasure cybersecurity features. To avoid cyberhackers' attempts, send your information through the
most secure method possible or become a Sekur subscriber. SekurMail, with SekurSend/SekurReply options,
sends a link to a recipient to open an email in a closed-loop encrypted military platform. The service protects both
the subscriber and the recipient, even if the recipient is not a Sekur subscriber. Using SekurMail with the
Company's SekurVPN adds another layer of encryption that protects its subscribers' IP addresses and website
traffic information. Sekur owns its servers, never sells data, never uses phone numbers, has no 3rd party cloud
applications, and never tracks web traffic. Sekur.com can offer businesses and individuals a secure and private e-
communication platform that is reasonably priced, ranging from $12-$20 monthly; business customers have higher
prices from business email domain migration. Sekur offers PROMO CODE: PRIVACY, which gives a 15% discount
on all Sekur services for up to 5 years. Remember, Sekur Private Data, Ltd. operates in Switzerland, a country with
some of the strictest privacy laws in the world. Tune in next time for another cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur
Privacy & Sekur Security– Weekly Hack" segment. The on-screen QR code is available during the show to
download more info or visit Sekur Private Data, Ltd.- https://sekurprivatedata.com/, https://sekur.com/, and
https://sekurvpn.com/. "Privacy Has Arrived."

                                                                                                 Page 4 of 6
   New to The Street Announces Episode 551, Five Corporate Interviews, Airing on the FOX Business Network ,
                                Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

About Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP):

Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP) is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical Company focused
on developing new antibiotics for difficult-to-treat infections. The Company's approach is to develop antibiotic
candidates that target the DNA polymerase IIIC enzyme. Its R&D pipeline includes antibiotic product candidates
that target Gram-positive bacteria, including Clostridioides difficile, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA), vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE), and drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae (DRSP). The
Company's Ibezapolstat is a novel, orally administered antibiotic developed as a Gram-Positive Selective Spectrum
(GPSS™) antibacterial. It is the first of a new class of DNA polymerase IIIC inhibitors under development by Acurx
to treat bacterial infections. Ibezapolstat's unique spectrum of activity, which includes C. difficile but spares other
Firmicutes and the important Actinobacteria species, appears to contribute to maintaining a healthy gut microbiome.
The Company completed Phase 2 clinical trials of Ibezapolstat. To learn more about Acurx Pharmaceuticals and its
product pipeline, please visit www.acurxpharma.com.

About Blue Castle Ventures, LTD. ($BCVD):

Blue Castle Ventures, LTD. ($BCVD) provides clients in Canada and several countries globally the opportunity to
access global markets with actively managed strategies that take advantage of the latest asset trends.The
Company aims to level the playfield by bringing the same advantages and opportunities that high-net-worth
individuals have to retail investors and reducing their exposure to the volatility and potential losses that lack of
knowledge in modern trends can cause. For four years, Blue Castle Ventures LTD has successfully designed
strategies for momentum trading in stocks to the point that it grew almost three times during the pandemic, which
has now allowed the Company to debut in the digital assets world. The Company has launched its own blockchain
system capable of exchanging a Point Program, “Blue Castle Ventures Dollar” or “BCVD,” and the bartering of
“Digital Art” directly to USD dollars. The operation relies on regulated financial institutions in Canada and the U.S.
These institutions provide The Company with banking, trading, payment, and brokerage services which allow them
to provide customers with the safest and most efficient approach - https://bluecastleventures.ca/.

About Dynex (CRYPTO: DNX) ($DNX):

Dynex (CRYPTO: DNX) ($DNX) represents a cutting-edge neuromorphic computing platform built upon a
revolutionary adaptable blockchain system. This decentralized neuromorphic supercomputing network executes
calculations with unparalleled speed and efficiency, surpassing quantum computing limitations. Dynex is the world's
first neuromorphic supercomputing blockchain based on its DynexSolve chip algorithm, a Proof-of-Useful-Work
(PoUW) approach to solving real-world problems. PoUW miners participate on a decentralized network that can
sometimes perform tasks at speeds greater than quantum computing. In December 2023, the Company officially
launched the Dynex Marketplace - https://dynexcoin.org/.

About The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.:

The Sustainable Green Team (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) is a leading Company in climate reversing technologies,
a provider of sustainable solutions to improve environmental health and promote sustainable practices, delivering
eco-friendly products and services. Through its partnership with VRM Biologik Group, SGTM aims to make
significant contributions to global sustainability; learn more by visiting the Company website,
https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/,      SGTM's YouTube       Channel    and     corporate     videos     -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJ7Dp9Coi88&t=1s & https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kycfy-UvQsU.

About VRM Biologik:

VRM Biologik is a renowned biotech intellectual property development leader committed to revolutionizing various
industries through innovative solutions. With a strong background in research and development, VRM Biologik aims
to create sustainable and transformative products that address pressing global challenges. Their sustainable

                                                                                                 Page 5 of 6
   New to The Street Announces Episode 551, Five Corporate Interviews, Airing on the FOX Business Network ,
                                Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

technologies are designed to address environmental challenges and promote a more sustainable future –
https://vrmbiologik.com.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About New to The Street:

New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running US and International
sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street." Since 2009, New to
The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S . television networks. The Nielsen-rated
and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US and international markets.
FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg and the FOX Business Network as sponsored
programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form paid
programming - https://www.newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all filings of the Companies
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT:

FMW Media Contact:Monica Brennanmonica@NewtoTheStreet.com 1-917-330-2564

"New to The Street" Business Development Office1-516-696-5900Support@NewToTheStreet.com



A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement        is        available                          at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/b7debec8-0b79-49d1-a89a-fa3434182fc9

                                                                                                Page 6 of 6
  New to The Street Announces Episode 551, Five Corporate Interviews, Airing on the FOX Business Network ,
                               Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

New to The Street Announces Episode 551, Five Corporate Interviews, Airing on the FOX Business Network,
Monday, January 29, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

Show 551: 1).Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP) 2). Blue Castle Ventures LTD. (CRYPTO:
BCVD) ($BCVD) 3). Dynex (CRYPTO: DNX) ($DNX) 4). The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTCQX: SGTM)
($SGTM) & 5). Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®) -
www.newtothestreet.com.


Load-Date: January 26, 2024


  
