

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
  New White Paper, 'Navigating Reputational Harm' by Eric W. Rose and James F. Haggerty Analyzes Managing
                                    Reputational Issues in the Digital Age




    New White Paper, 'Navigating Reputational Harm' by Eric W. Rose and
   James F. Haggerty Analyzes Managing Reputational Issues in the Digital
                                   Age
                                                           PR Newswire
                                             April 4, 2024 Thursday 1:57 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1031 words
Dateline: NEW YORK, April 4, 2024

Body


PR NewswireNEW YORK, April 4, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- AttorneyJames F. HaggertyandEric W. Rose, a nationally
known expert on reputational damages, are pleased to announce the publication of a new white paper, "Navigating
Reputational Harm: A Deep Dive into Repairing, Measuring, Metrics, and Legal Implications of Reputational Harm
in the Internet Age," published byHart + Harvest Pressas part of their new Media Monograph Series.

 With a rise in false and defamatory content due to social media and the internet, managing a reputation has
become increasingly difficult, presenting challenges to the traditional reputational response methods. This white
paper features a comprehensive analysis on how to handle the growing challenges of repairing reputational
damage in a media-driven era.Haggerty and Rose provide a guide on the best practices moving forward to help
properly handle a reputational crisis online, along with addressing the more prominent role of Artificial Intelligence
(AI) in perpetuating reputational harm."Simply put," the authors, write, "in today's world, everyone is a publisher,
everyone has an opinion, this opinionated "news" can be transmitted globally with the touch of a button, and we all
have actual malice toward each other — or, at least, toward anyone with an opposing or adversarial
viewpoint."Haggerty and Rose add that "the difference between fact and opinion, which has traditionally been
critical to defamation cases, has also blurred. Indeed, this brave new world has changed, and will further change,
the framework and cost-benefit analysis surrounding modern defamation law. This will likely result in more
defamation suits and greater damages, both in the United States and in other jurisdictions."A guide for public
relations professionals, organizations, and legal professionals dealing with reputation issues online,Navigating
Reputational Harmoutlines various tools and techniques for addressing reputational damage, including social media
monitoring platforms and sentiment analysis tools.This white paper is available for download on the websites ofEKA
PRandPRCG | Haggerty, and athartandharvest.com.About The AuthorsJames F. Haggerty, CEO ofPRCG |
Haggerty LLC, is an attorney, author, and communications consultant with more than 30 years of experience
advising corporate, nonprofit, and individual clients. Business Insider recently named Jim as one of the "18 top
public-relations experts CEOs scramble to hire in a crisis." He has also been repeatedly ranked as one of the top
legal communications professionals in the United States by Chambers and Partners, the international legal
directory, and in 2017 was named one of 50 "Game-Changers of PR" byPR Newsfor his work in litigation-related
communications. Jim is also President of Reputation Advisors International, a network of senior communications

                                                                                               Page 2 of 2
  New White Paper, 'Navigating Reputational Harm' by Eric W. Rose and James F. Haggerty Analyzes Managing
                                    Reputational Issues in the Digital Age

professionals in 16 cities across the globe.Jim's influential first book,In The Court of Public Opinion: Winning
Strategies for Litigation Communications,has been called "...the perfect handbook for this age" by theFinancial
Timesand remains a definitive exploration of public relations in legal disputes.In the Court of Public Opinionis now in
its Third Edition, published by Hart + Harvest Press (2022). Jim's second book,Chief Crisis Officer: Structure and
Leadership for Effective Communications Response,was the best-selling public relations hardcover of 2017 and
was recently released in paperback by Hart + Harvest Press, with a new Preface by the author.Chief Crisis
Officerhas received recognition in theHarvard Business Review, Entrepreneur, andFortunemagazines, among
others. Jim was also a columnist forAmerican Lawyer's Corporate Counsel magazine from 2011 to 2015.Jim is
admitted to practice law in New York and Florida. As an attorney, his legal work spans diverse areas, including
reputation matters, First Amendment issues, and false advertising cases. Jim was also lead counsel on behalf of
more than 3,000 victims of the Haitian Cholera disaster, in a case against the United Nations that reached the U.S.
Supreme Court in 2019.Eric W. Roseis a veteran executive in public relations, marketing, and communications with
over 35 years of experience. He is apartner at EKA in Los Angeles, specializing in guiding clients through complex
corporate reputation challenges and has assisted clients in navigating crises stemming from natural and human-
made disasters, labor disputes, product recalls, layoffs, and plant closures.Eric has distinguished himself in
litigation, crisis communications, reputation management, image repair, and counseling. Eric has created public
relations and marketing/communications programs for the legal profession and has provided litigation support
throughout the United States. Eric has served as an expert information source and analyst for the mass media on
crisis communications, image repair, and reputation management issues.He is a respected court-qualified expert
witness and has testified on matters relating to crisis communications, defamation, damaged image, reputation
prevention, and the costs of implementing repair programs. He has provided expert testimony nationally on the
costs and measures required to restore reputations. Eric has also been a rebuttal expert witness and excels in
reputational repair and identifying and mitigating social media vulnerabilities.Eric excels at distilling intricate legal
matters into digestible, clear, and impactful narratives tailored to specific audiences. He also specializes in crafting
communication strategies designed to navigate the litigation processes. His track record includes shaping
narratives in high-profile cases, anticipating potential case outcomes, and effectively influencing key stakeholders to
cultivate an environment conducive to the client's objectives.Media ContactPRCG | Haggerty LLC
Sandra Prendergast
(212) 683-8100
sprendergast@prcg.com         View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-
releases/new-white-paper-navigating-reputational-harm-by-eric-w-rose-and-james-f-haggerty-analyzes-managing-
reputational-issues-in-the-digital-age-302108673.htmlSOURCE Hart + Harvest Press


Load-Date: April 4, 2024


  
