

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
         Motorola Solutions Presents Innovations to Strengthen Defence and Disaster Management at Fidae




       Motorola Solutions Presents Innovations to Strengthen Defence and
                         Disaster Management at Fidae
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           April 10, 2024 Wednesday 8:51 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 650 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: SANTIAGO, Chile

Body


Motorola Solutions issued the following news release:

Reliable and resilient communication and heightened awareness are essential for Chile's emergency and defense
agencies, especially when facing extreme and unpredictable events, including volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and
forest fires. At FIDAE 2024, Motorola Solutions (NYSE: MSI) will showcase how its safety and security ecosystem
of technologies can enhance collaboration across public safety and defense agencies and personnel, especially in
scenarios requiring a multi-agency response.

"Safety and security outcomes are dramatically improved when emergency responders have real-time awareness
of events and are empowered to work together," said Elton Borgonovo, MSSSI vice president, Latin America and
the Caribbean Region, Motorola Solutions. "We deploy critical communications, video security and command center
solutions that help to improve situational awareness, streamline the flow of information and increase collaboration
across those who respond in an emergency."

Motorola Solutions technology highlights at FIDAE 2024 include:

* High Frequency and Very High Frequency Radio Communications: Specialized technology enables mission-
critical radio communications in any location without the need for infrastructure, supporting response efforts during
natural disasters.

* SmartConnect: Subscription-based application service extends and strengthens voice communications by
automatically switching channels between land mobile radio, broadband, Wi-Fi and satellite networks when radio
users travel outside radio coverage areas.

* Command Center Technologies: Powerful, integrated software that can unify voice, video and data feeds,
enabling a 360 view of unfolding events and helping public safety agencies make decisions with greater focus,
certainty and speed.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
        Motorola Solutions Presents Innovations to Strengthen Defence and Disaster Management at Fidae

* Avigilon Unity Video: AI-enabled, on-premise video management system offers flexible, cloud-based capabilities
to strengthen security and perimeter protection at critical sites. The solution also supports Avigilon H6A and H6X
cameras with AdaptAI, an advanced edge analytics suite that can rapidly search by appearance, detect unusual
crowd behavior, flag auditory disturbances and distinguish between different vehicle types.

* L5M mobile license plate recognition system: High-performance solution provides reliable image clarity to detect
vehicles moving at speeds of up to 150 mph without performance degradation.

* L6Q license plate reader: Sophisticated license plate recognition, with consumer-grade ease of installation, scans
vehicles moving at specific speeds and different directions, even in dark conditions.

* ActiveEye: Cybersecurity management platform provides rapid threat detection and response to defend against
ransomware and other cybersecurity threats for organizations and agencies of all sizes. ActiveEye is supported by
a 24/7 Security Operations Center and a dedicated team of analysts providing actionable recommendations to
prevent incidents, minimize risk and ensure best practices.

Motorola Solutions is exhibiting these technologies at FIDAE at Pabellon Chile, E hall, booth E-42 at the north side
of the Arturo Merino Benitez Airport, in Santiago de Chile.

***

About Motorola Solutions

Motorola Solutions is solving for safer. We build and connect technologies to help protect people, property and
places. Our solutions enable the collaboration between public safety agencies and enterprises that's critical for a
proactive approach to safety and security. Learn more about how we're solving for safer communities, safer
schools, safer hospitals, safer businesses - safer everywhere - at www.motorolasolutions.com.

***

Original text here: https://www.motorolasolutions.com/newsroom/press-releases/motorola-solutions-presents-
technology-innovations-at-fidae.html

[Category: BizTelecommunications]

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8566564 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: April 10, 2024


  
