

                                                                                               Page 1 of 4
      Neuron Launches Network APIs to Enable Application-Driven QoE On Demand for the Maritime Industry
                     Network APIs for multi-provider, AI-powered network management....




    Neuron Launches Network APIs to Enable Application-Driven QoE On
   Demand for the Maritime Industry; Network APIs for multi-provider, AI-
  powered network management will unlock new opportunities for maritime
   applications and services that rely on LTE, satellite and Wi-Fi; Leading
    maritime solution providers VIKAND and FrontM have teamed up with
    Neuron to explore a variety of ways to use network APIs to transform
                         onboard medical services
                                                   Business Wire
                                       April 9, 2024 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1510 words
Dateline: MIRAMAR, Fla.

Body

Neuron , a QoE management platform for things that move, announced today that it's making its network APIs
available to maritime solution providers and app developers to enable application-driven quality of experience
(QoE) on demand. With Neuron's network APIs, cruise, shipping, energy and more can reimagine connectivity and
QoE for critical onboard services such as medical, disaster response, remote monitoring and management and
more, resulting in higher standards of safety and well-being for passengers and crew.

As part of today's announcement, Neuron, VIKAND , a global leader in maritime healthcare, and FrontM , creator of
a low code software platform for maritime, have unveiled a partnership to explore a variety of ways to transform
onboard medical services across the maritime industry.

Bandwidth Orchestration in Maritime is Highly Manual and Inefficient

During emergency situations at sea, the apps and services supporting response efforts need exponentially more
bandwidth, with elevated QoE, to accelerate response times, communication and decision-making. Consider an
already busy network with passengers, crew and corporate teams using the majority of available data capacity, and
then add to the mix a medical team managing an emergency on the ship - they might need more than 100 Mbps of
symmetrical bandwidth on demand to transfer large files, conduct an HD video conference with remote specialists,
perform telediagnosis and more.

Today, it's not possible to dynamically orchestrate bandwidth across multiple providers and update QoS and
network configurations for short periods of time, while also ensuring a high-quality end-user experience - without
disrupting all other activity on the ship. Instead, cruise teams have to manually configure and provision capacity to
manage this type of request, and prioritize and allocate the bandwidth to the application accordingly. This process is

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 4
        Neuron Launches Network APIs to Enable Application-Driven QoE On Demand for the Maritime Industry
                       Network APIs for multi-provider, AI-powered network management....

clunky, expensive and can often take days, leaving onboard solution teams to resort to workarounds that are less
efficient.

Neuron Network APIs Enable Multi-Provider, AI-Powered Connectivity Orchestration

With Neuron's network APIs, maritime solution providers and app developers can connect their apps directly to
Neuron's AI-powered network management solution, Neuron Grid, to programmatically request QoE on demand.
When an app triggers a request, Neuron will use AI and machine learning to orchestrate network changes and
deliver the capacity the app needs, in real-time, with the most optimal QoE - all the onboard team needs to do is
press a button in an app. Unlike other network management solutions, Neuron can seamlessly blend any
combination of connectivity - whether single- or multi-provider, -orbit or -network - in one, vendor-neutral
environment.

"Telecom network APIs are incredibly powerful, but they've always been focused on cellular, limiting their value for
maritime companies that rely on LTE, satellite and Wi-Fi," said Benny Retnamony, founder and CEO, Neuron.
"Because Neuron enables multi-provider access with AI-powered network management, we are uniquely positioned
to facilitate application-driven QoE on demand for the maritime industry. We look forward to collaborating with a
range of maritime solution providers to unlock the next generation of apps and services at sea."

Neuron, VIKAND and FrontM Partner to Transform Onboard Medical Services

Neuron, VIKAND and FrontM are collaborating to explore a variety of ways to use Neuron's QoE management
platform to rethink both emergency and non-emergency medical services for maritime. With Neuron's network APIs,
VIKAND can ensure continuity of care, especially in the event of an emergency when reliable, high-quality
connectivity is critical. This will make it possible for doctors to use modern digital imaging equipment for high-
resolution X-rays and ultrasounds, or more advanced medical equipment, like smart stethoscopes, right from the
ship.
    •     "On-demand, agile and elastic connectivity is needed to enable advanced healthcare technologies and
          solutions at sea," added Benny Retnamony, founder and CEO of Neuron. "Through our partnership with
          VIKAND and FrontM, we are committed to demonstrating how application-driven QoE on demand
          orchestrated through the Neuron platform can clear the way for VIKAND to accelerate access to critical
          onboard medical services."
    •     "Technology and connectivity are critical to any vessels at sea," says Ronald Spithout, Managing Director
          of OneHealth by VIKAND. "VIKAND together with FrontM are always striving to deploy state of the art
          modern technology to improve healthcare possibilities at sea. In this context, the integration with Neuron's
          quality of experience management platform opens the possibility to automatically link available capacity
          that best matches the specific application requirement of that very moment, which could make all the
          difference when talking healthcare and/or medical emergencies. VIKAND is delighted to be partnering with
          Neuron to deploy this technology to the benefit of improving welfare at sea, where it adds value to our
          operations, preserves crew value and benefits the maritime industry as a whole."
    •     Guillermo Acilu, CTO, FrontM adds, "We are excited to harness enhanced connectivity by combining
          Neuron's network management API and FrontM's low-code frameworks for Vikand's healthcare solution.
          This is groundbreaking for not only Vikand's doctors and the crew to access advanced solutions with
          dynamically elevated connectivity but also to bring efficiency and assurance to the customer at the same
          time. This partnership with Neuron opens up significant opportunities to maximise the customer experience
          for a vast array of applications in our app marketplace."

Click here to view a short demo video by Neuron, VIKAND and FrontM.

Unlocking the Next Generation of Apps and Services at Sea

                                                                                              Page 3 of 4
     Neuron Launches Network APIs to Enable Application-Driven QoE On Demand for the Maritime Industry
                    Network APIs for multi-provider, AI-powered network management....

Application-driven QoE on demand for critical onboard services is just the beginning. In the future, maritime solution
providers can also use Neuron's network APIs to unlock differentiated and personalized passenger experiences.
For example, tailoring IPTV content and quality for special events, like Sunday Night Football; dynamic content
caching prepositioning for high-definition VoD; or throwing hyper-connected live events and festivals in the middle
of the ocean.

Neuron is committed to working with additional partners to explore new ways to use its network APIs for a diverse
range of use cases.

About Neuron

Neuron is the first AI-powered QoE management platform for things that move. It uses AI and machine learning to
seamlessly blend any combination of connectivity, regardless of provider, orbit or network, in one, vendor-neutral
environment, enabling comprehensive analytics and dynamic network orchestration that optimizes for the best
possible quality of experience (QoE) - even in the most remote and hard-to-reach places.

Today, Neuron works with world-leading, Fortune 500 companies in aviation, cruise, shipping and more. To learn
more, visit: www.getneuron.com and follow us on LinkedIn .

About VIKAND

VIKAND is a leading expert in global medical services and risk mitigation solutions for the maritime industry,
operating a global network of 1,500 maritime medical professionals, established across 44 countries, supported by
4 main locations. VIKAND's caring and committed teams manage more than 4,100 daily maritime medical
encounters.

With OneHealth, VIKAND offers a preventive maintenance approach to optimizing the physical and mental health of
seafarers. A ship at sea is a standalone ecosystem where people live and work interdependently. OneHealth takes
a diversified and inclusive approach to protecting the health and wellness of all onboard.

VIKAND all-inclusive approach unifies preparedness, prevention, detection, response, and management across a
range of healthcare concerns, from communicable diseases to chronic illnesses, mental health concerns and more.
www.vikand.com

About FrontM

FrontM is a UK Headquartered, collaboration software company offering a comprehensive superapp platform for the
maritime industry. By connecting service providers, solution providers, ship operators and their crews, FrontM
facilitates improved communications, collaboration, crew welfare and operational efficiency at sea.

Delivering a unique suite of marketplace apps for companies to prioritise crew connectivity and operate the ship as
an extension of the shore ranging from crew healthcare enabling medical specialists to deliver comprehensive care,
to crew training and skills development with social and just-in-time learning tools, crew entertainment with the
industry's first live IP-TV, together with crew social internet, video conferencing and virtual events.

With a focus on digitalisation and a one-stop solution for integrating services, FrontM is dedicated to overcoming
the challenges of app fatigue and advancing the maritime industry's digital transformation. www.frontm.com

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240409591486/en/


CONTACT: leslie@getneuron.com


http://www.businesswire.com

                                                                                              Page 4 of 4
     Neuron Launches Network APIs to Enable Application-Driven QoE On Demand for the Maritime Industry
                    Network APIs for multi-provider, AI-powered network management....


Load-Date: April 9, 2024


  
