

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
                                   WMO Appoints New Executive Management Members




                    WMO Appoints New Executive Management Members
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           January 30, 2024 Tuesday 9:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1090 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: GENEVA, Switzerland

Body


The World Meteorological Organization issued the following news release:

The World Meteorological Organization has appointed Ko Barrett as Deputy Secretary-General and Thomas Asare
as Assistant Secretary-General, cementing a new Executive Management team under the leadership of Secretary-
General Celeste Saulo.

***

Key messages

* WMO completes top management team under Secretary-General Celeste Saulo

* Ko Barrett named as Deputy Secretary-General

* Thomas Asare named as Assistant Secretary-General

* WMO Executive Council confirms appointments

Ko Barrett is currently the senior advisor for climate at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) and is a former Vice-Chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).

Thomas Asare is Comptroller and Director, Division of Financial and Administrative Management at UNICEF.

"The new Executive Management of WMO will lead our organization as we fulfil our responsibilities to shape the
narrative on climate action, to empower nations, and to create more sustainable pathways for the future," said
WMO Secretary-General Celeste Saulo.

"It is vital that WMO can provide deliver timely, actionable and authoritative scientific information to inform policy
makers and to support society as we face up to humanity's biggest challenge - the climate crisis," she said.

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 3
                              WMO Appoints New Executive Management Members

"I am confident that the new Executive Management team combines the necessary expertise and experience to
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the WMO Secretariat. The regional, professional and academic diversity
of WMO's leadership will ensure we deliver the best possible service to our 193 Member states and territories," she
said.

Celeste Saulo became WMO's first female Secretary-General at the start of 2024. An Argentinian national, she is
the first person from Latin America to hold the position. She leads WMO in an era when the impacts of climate
change and extreme weather are increasing exponentially, as are the needs for the expertise of the WMO
community in saving lives and livelihoods.

The Executive Council met in extraordinary session to confirm the new appointments. It was the only agenda item
on the hybrid meeting. The meeting was chaired by WMO President Abdulla Al Mandous.

Top Priorities

The new WMO Executive Management will be responsible for implementing WMO's top priorities. These include
the global expansion of Early Warning Services to protect everyone on Earth from hazardous weather and so
support climate adaptation, as well as the envisaged development of a new Global Greenhouse Gas Watch to
inform climate change mitigation.

In order to achieve this, there is a need to strengthen observations and data exchange which underpin reliable and
accessible weather forecasts and to harness the potential of artificial intelligence.

The WMO leadership will seek to leverage collaboration between science and education, strengthen public-private
partnerships and facilitate access to climate financing. It aims to intensify support to regions and countries,
especially those grappling with developmental challenges.

The new appointments reflect WMO's commitment to geographical diversity, gender balance, inclusivity and
transparency both at Geneva headquarters and in regional offices.

WMO Deputy Secretary-General

Ko Barrett is currently Senior Advisor for Climate at NOAA.

She was IPCC Vice-Chair from December 2015 until July 2023. Prior to this she has held senior positions in NOAA
such as Deputy Assistant Administrator Research, Deputy Director, Climate Program Office, Acting Division Chief,
Climate Assessment and Services Division, and Associate Director for International Affairs.

As NOAA's foremost authority on climate, Ko Barrett serves as the agency's representative in a wide spectrum of
intra-agency, inter-agency, and international dialogues and initiatives aimed at advancing climate action.

She has also held positions in the US Department of State as Senior Climate Change Adviser and Climate Change
Negotiator and in USAID as Director, USAID's Global Climate Change Program.

She has over 30 years of experience in the domains of climate, atmospheric and environmental research and
services. She is familiar with the work of the WMO and UN communities.

Ko Barrett will guide the effective management of WMO's technical departments and related programmes ensuring
coordinated and consistent interdepartmental work. She will enhance the efficiency and visibility of WMO Regional
Offices in relations with governments.

WMO Assistant Secretary-General

Thomas Asare is currently the Comptroller and the Director of the Division of Financial and Administrative
Management in UNICEF.

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 3
                              WMO Appoints New Executive Management Members

Prior to this, Mr. Asare was the Director of Programming, Budgeting, Finance and Accounting at the African Union.
He also has worked in various finance-related functions in government, private sector, and non-governmental
organizations.

Mr. Asare possesses a wealth of senior experience in the areas of finance, budget, administration, and good
governance of international organizations. He holds two masters degrees in accounting and finance and audit
management and consultancy.

The WMO Assistant Secretary-General is responsible for ensuring the operation of the organization's overall
corporate strategic direction and administration.

This includes overseeing the management of regular budget and extrabudgetary resources, finance, risk
management, corporate IT, human resources, conferences, linguistic services, travel, procurement, and facilities
management.

WMO Executive Council

The Executive Council comprises a President, three Vice-Presidents, the six Regional Association Presidents and
27 Directors of National Meteorological or Hydrometeorological Services elected by Congress.

The new Executive Management team succeeds Petteri Taalas (Secretary-General), Elena Manaenkova (Deputy
Secretary-General) and Wenjian Zhang (Assistant Secretary-General), who completed their terms in office.

***

The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations responsible for
promoting international cooperation in atmospheric science and meteorology.

WMO monitors weather, climate, and water resources and provides support to its Members in forecasting and
disaster mitigation. The organization is committed to advancing scientific knowledge and improving public safety
and well-being through its work.

***

Original text here: https://wmo.int/news/media-centre/wmo-appoints-new-executive-management-members

Copyright Targeted News Services

null-8466131 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 30, 2024


  
