

                                                                                             Page 1 of 2
    Docufree Wins 2023 Document Manager Award in "Imaging Product of the Year: Workgroup/Departmental"
                                               Category




  Docufree Wins 2023 Document Manager Award in "Imaging Product of the
                 Year: Workgroup/Departmental" Category
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           January 30, 2024 Tuesday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 619 words
Dateline: ATLANTA, Jan. 30, 2024

Body


PR NewswireDocufree's ScanCloud Named First Runner-Up
ATLANTA, Jan. 30, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Docufree, a leading provider of enterprise information management (EIM)
and digital business process services, received top honors at theDocument Manager MagazineDM Awards, earning
first runner-up for "Imaging Product of the Year" forScanCloud, the company's document-scanning service
delivered over its secure cloud platform. The company was also named a finalist in both the "Enterprise CMS
Product of the Year" and "BPO/Outsourcing/Bureau Business of the Year" categoriesNow in their 17th year, the
Document Manager Awards were established to showcase, recognize, and reward the sector's true pioneers in
technology products and service.

The DM Awards reflect document-management leaders segmented across areas with themes including workflow,
security, compliance, and artificial intelligence (AI). An independent panel made up of industry experts judges the
entries. Award winners were announced on Nov. 16, 2023, in London."We are honored to be recognized
byDocument Manager Magazine, a publication at the forefront of our industry," said David Winkler, executive vice
president and chief product officer at Docufree. "This recognition is a testament to our role in the information-
management and Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) industry, and our dedication to developing innovative
solutions that help organizations transition to a digital, information-driven future. Reaching the final stage in multiple
categories highlights the breadth and depth of our offerings, and how we address the evolving needs of our
customers. We are committed to providing shared, remote access to enterprise-wide documents and helping to
streamline data workflows with compliance and security embedded into every process."Docufree ScanCloud
provides high-volume document scanning services delivered over a secure cloud platform, empowering
organizations across the country to convert paper documents into searchable digital formats and metadata. This
includes a secure chain of custody process from pickup to digital delivery and detailed quality assurance led by
trained certified experts who meticulously inspect each image and index value, ensuring maximum accuracy and
reliability. These services help organizations reduce paper-related and physical storage costs, free up valuable
office space, improve document accessibility and search, as well as strengthen compliance and disaster
preparedness.Additionally, ScanCloud makes it easy for customers to review and organize images and indexes;
track the status of their scanning projects; and securely share and export images and data to other groups,
workflows and systems as well as capture follow-along documents from a desktop scanner, multi-function device,
network folder or business application.A full list of Document Manager award categories and finalists can be

                                                                                             Page 2 of 2
    Docufree Wins 2023 Document Manager Award in "Imaging Product of the Year: Workgroup/Departmental"
                                               Category

found here.About DocufreeDocufree is a leading provider of enterprise information management and digital
business process services. This includes large-volume document capture; data extraction and integration; intelligent
process automation; cloud-based document management; and digital mailroom services. For more information,
visit www.Docufree.com.Follow us onLinkedInand Twitter@Docufreethen like us onFacebook.Media Contact:Jan
Sisko
Carabiner Communications
(678) 461-7438

jsisko@carabinercomms.comTena Johnson
Docufree Corporate Communications
(877) 362-3569

pr@docufree.com

https://www.docufree.com View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/docufree-wins-2023-
document-manager-award-in-imaging-product-of-the-year-workgroupdepartmental-category-
302045900.htmlSOURCE Docufree


Load-Date: January 30, 2024


  
