

                                                                                                Page 1 of 7
   New to The Street TV Announces Five Corporate Guest Interviews, Episode 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A
                          Sponsored Programming, Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30....




 New to The Street TV Announces Five Corporate Guest Interviews, Episode
 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A Sponsored Programming, Saturday, April
    13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET and Episode 569 Airing on The FOX Business
Network, Monday, April 22, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT; Premiering Peter GoldStein
     Co-Hosting the monthly “IPOMarket” Segment and Author of “The
                             Entrepreneur's IPO”
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                                April 12, 2024 Friday 9:15 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CALENDAR OF EVENTS; PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 3859 words

Body


NEW YORK, April 12, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- New to The Street, an FMW Media business show
production, will air its five corporate guest interviews, episodes 568 and 569, as Sponsored Programming on
Bloomberg TV and FOX Business Network.

Bloomberg TV airs Episode 568 as a sponsored programming Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET, featuring
the following five (5) Corporate Guests:

1). Capital Loans – BHG Financial's interview with Albert Crawford, Co-Founder, Chairman, and CEO

2). Real Estate – La Rosa Holdings Corp’s. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC) interviews with Joe La Rosa, Founder and
CEO, and Peter Goldstein, CEO of Exchange Listings, LLC, the Founder of Emmis Capital IPO Fund, and Author:
"The Entrepreneur's IPO."

3). Golfing Online Platform – Performance Golf's interview with Brixton Albert, Founder and CEO.

4). Carbon Credit Industry - DevvStream Holdings, Inc.’s (CBOE: DESG) (OTCQB: DSTRF) (FSE: CQ0) interview
with Sunny Trinh, Co-Founder and CEO.

                                                                                               Page 2 of 7
  New to The Street TV Announces Five Corporate Guest Interviews, Episode 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A
                         Sponsored Programming, Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30....

5). Sustainable Solutions – Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) interview with Tony Raynor,
CEO and Founder.

FOX Business Network airs Episode 569 as a sponsored programming Monday, April 22, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT,
featuring the following five (5) Corporate Guests:

1). Capital Loans – BHG Financial's interview with Albert Crawford, Co-Founder, Chairman, and CEO

2). Real Estate – La Rosa Holdings Corp’s. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC) interviews with Joe La Rosa, Founder and
CEO, and Peter Goldstein, CEO of Exchange Listings, LLC, the Founder of Emmis Capital IPO Fund, and Author:
"The Entrepreneur's IPO."

3). Carbon Credit Industry - DevvStream Holdings, Inc.’s (CBOE: DESG) (OTCQB: DSTRF) (FSE: CQ0) interview
with Sunny Trinh, Co-Founder and CEO.

4). Sustainable Solutions – Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) interview with Tony Raynor,
CEO and Founder.

5). "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO,
Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®).

From the New York Stock Exchange Studio, New to The Street's TV Host Jane King talks with Albert Crawford, the
Co-Founder, Chairman, and CEO of BHG Financial ("BHG"), a leader in providing working capital loans for small-
medium size businesses and unsecured personal loans. With one of the largest community bank networks in the
USA, BHG created a successful loan program that packages and sells loan assets to community banks. Albert
started the Company in 2001 after seeing small businesses and entrepreneurs struggle to obtain capital to start and
grow a business. Traditional banks usually denied applications, or individuals would need to put up homes and
other hard assets as collateral. BHG can provide quick loans in as little as one-day approval process with easy-to-
understand payback provisions and terms. Using data, analytics, and cutting-edge technology, BHG offers clients a
"White-Glove" service approach, available every step of the way for a successful loan approval. Albert highlights a
couple of real-case solutions, whereas BHG was able to provide seed capital loans that propel those entrepreneurs'
business models into successful operations. As a niche loan provider focusing on the 21 million entrepreneurs in
the US, BHG can offer fast, efficient, and adequate capital for borrowers. BHG Financial continues to grow and
transform the financial industry with comprehensive loan solutions and community bank participation. The on-
screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit BHG Financial - https://bhgfinancial.com/. The
interview will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET and on
the FOX Business Network on Monday, April 22, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King is at the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio with Joe La Rosa, the Founder and
CEO of La Rosa Holdings Corp. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC), and Peter Goldstein, the CEO of Exchange Listings
,LLC, the Founder of Emmis Capital IPO Fund and Author: "The Entrepreneur's IPO." La Rosa Holdings Corp. has
five agent-centric, technology-integrated, cloud-based, multi-service real estate segments as a holding Company.
Peter Goldstein starts the segment with his business history, with 35 years of experience in investment banking and
capital markets. Many entrepreneurs and small- and medium-sized businesses believe they are too small to
become publicly traded entities. Peter explains the misnomer, the need to be the next "Unicorn," is not an accurate
perception for micro and small cap entities to become public and access to the equity markets. His book: "The
Entrepreneur's IPO" thoroughly explains and educates entrepreneurs interested in going public. Joe La Rosa talks
about LRHC and its business model that can assist realtors with creating multiple revenue streams. Many traditional
real-estate offices have complex revenue share models with time limitations and aggregate sales numbers before
sharing can commence. La Rosa Realty has an immediate turn-key revenue share model with no restrictions, wait
periods or sales requirements. A single agent can take immediate advantage of LRHC's revenue share program.
Using the Company's AI platform, JAEME, encouraged agents to embrace AI technology to be more efficient and
effective in their real-estate professions. Joe wants his professionals not to be afraid of AI but to use it to be more

                                                                                               Page 3 of 7
  New to The Street TV Announces Five Corporate Guest Interviews, Episode 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A
                         Sponsored Programming, Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30....

productive and successful. La Rosa Holdings Corp. is averaging about two real-estate agency acquisitions per
month and expects further growth. LRHC went public in October 2023, and its shares now trade on the Nasdaq
Exchange, symbol LRHC. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit BHG Financial -
https://bhgfinancial.com/. The interview will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on Saturday, April 13,
2024, at 6:30 PM ET and on the FOX Business Network on Monday, April 22, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

From the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio, Brixton Albert, Founder and CEO of Performance Golf, talks about the
Company with New to The Street's TV Host Jane King. Performance Golf is an interactive online platform that
allows golfers access to tools and resources to learn and improve their golfing game and experience. With the
Company's goal to get golfers better and faster, Brixton explains the business model that offers its golfer
subscribers access to instructors and videos to improve the game's swing, putting, and other aspects. Golf can
become frustrating, as some experience that more practice can worsen one's gameplay. The Performance Golf
app's AI technology can evaluate a swing problem from the video and send back a swing-fix AI-generated video
with the suggested corrections for improvement. Golfers can load other statistical information about their game,
which furthers the scope of the AI interactive experience. The app has over 50,000 downloads. The platform allows
one-on-one coaching experiences with some of the best PGA coaches available to assist golfers in greatly
improving their golf experience and scores. Performance Golf has several golf clubs and products that can help in a
golfer's short game and for putting, driving, and approaching shots. These golf clubs give golfers immediate
auditory and sensory feedback on the swing, improving gameplay. Through Performance Golf, a golfer has access
to cutting-edge AI technology, training, and coaching, all of which assist a golfer with the quest to improve their
game. Anyone golfer or who wants to learn golf can learn more needs; visit the company website - Performance
Golf - https://www.performancegolf.com/. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit
Performance Golf. The interview will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on Saturday, April 13, 2024,
at 6:30 PM ET.

Sunny Trinh, Co-Founder and CEO of DevvStream Holdings, Inc. (CBOE: DESG) (OTCQB: DSTRF) (FSE: CQ0)
("DevvStream"), talks with New to The Street's TV Host Jane King about the Company. As a technological-based
ESG (environmental, social, and governance) company that advances the development and monetization of
ecological assets, DevvStream provides revenue streams for businesses, organizations, and governmental entities
using carbon credits. The Company's target market is any entity's activities in lowering energy consumption and
carbon emissions. Management looks to fund companies in the renewable energy sectors, energy efficiency
industries, and entities that reduce/eliminate CO2 emissions. Every 1MT (Metric Ton) of carbon reduction equates
to 1 carbon credit. For every carbon credit generated for a customer, DevvStream receives a % of those credits.
The carbon credit market is about $1.16T and expected to be around $2.6T in 2030. Because DevvStream uses
technology to reduce carbon emissions in various industries, the carbon footprint reductions are shorter than those
of its competitors using natural-based solutions. Planting trees and other natural solutions can take up to 20 years
to realize results. Sunny provided a case study of success with a client in the waste-water management business,
where DevvStream and its tech partner can reduce up to 83% of carbon output. With over 144 pipeline projects and
nine signed contracts, DevvStresan expects continued growth in carbon credits, possibly generating yearly $240M
in revenues. A pending S-4 registration statement with the US Securities and Exchange Commission is pending for
the Company to merge with Focus Impact Acquisition Corp, a SPAC (Special Purpose Acquisition Company) entity.
Once approved, the Company will become the first carbon credit industry listed on the Nasdaq Exchange.
Currently, the Company's common stock trades on the following exchanges - the Canadian CBOE Market, symbol
DESG; the US OTCMarket's OTCQB, symbol DSTRF; and the Frankfurt Exchange, symbol CQ0. The DevvStream
platform is unique to developing carbon reduction strategies and other sustainability projects and is a leader in the
carbon credit marketplace. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit DevvStream
Holdings, Inc. - https://devvstream.com/. The interview will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on
Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET and on the FOX Business Network on Monday, April 22, 2024, at 10:30 PM
PT.

On New to The Street, Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) Tony Raynor, CEO and
Founder, talks with TV Host Jane King from the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio. SGTM is revolutionizing sustainability

                                                                                               Page 4 of 7
  New to The Street TV Announces Five Corporate Guest Interviews, Episode 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A
                         Sponsored Programming, Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30....

using cutting-edge technology, converting waste into viable products. Agricultural companies can meet their
sustainability goals using SGTM's products and services. The Company diversified itself from making mulch
products by introducing cutting-edge, disruptive technologies that address the world's agricultural problems. Tony
explains that in addition to groundbreaking technologies, the Company has a global team of experts and
consultants with experience in finance, governmental agencies, and sustainability methodologies. The adage:
"Wisdom comes through the multitude of counsel" explains Tony's team of global personnel committed to
spearheading projects with the vision for immediate objectives and sustainable solutions. With personnel in the
Middle East, Australia, and the USA, Tony has the right team to launch all SGTM's products and services globally.
SGTM's technology converts waste into nutrient-rich soil, diminishing food insecurities while sequestering carbon,
reducing odors, and limiting diseases. SGTM's team and technologically advanced products are genuinely
revolutionary, and they have a global mission to scale upward to increase agricultural outputs dramatically. The
Company has a YouTube channel with many informative videos about the Company and its sustainable initiatives.
The on-screen QR code is available during the shows: The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. -
https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/. The interview will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on
Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET and on the FOX Business Network on Monday, April 22, 2024, at 10:30 PM
PT.

New to the Street TV airs its "Weekly Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security Segment" with internationally acclaimed
internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO of Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA:
GDT0). TV Host / Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry and Alan talk about telecommunication provider AT&T and its
73 million current and former customers' data stolen from a hacker. AT&T was still looking into how the hack
occurred, whether it was an internal cybersecurity breach or through a third-party provider technology platform.
Customers are finding their information on the "Dark Web attack." Data is valuable; providers sell your data for
millions of dollars, and hackers do the same with stolen info. If you want a secure and private solution, Sekur offers
several communication services with encryption technology to eliminate hack attempts and threats. SekurMail,
SekurMessenger, and SekurVPN are affordable solutions that can protect end-users from a possible cybersecurity
breach. Features like SekurSend/SekurReply and Chat-by-Invite give end-users many options when
communicating. Recipients receive an invite from the Sekur subscribers, which opens an encrypted path protected
from potential hackers. This secure path allows the recipient to have protected encrypted communication without
being a Sekur subscriber. Alain recommends the Company's safe and encrypted, like the SekurVPN service, in
combination with other offerings. The Company operates its internet platforms and security businesses under the
country of Switzerland's very tough privacy laws. Sekur owns its servers, has proprietary technology, doesn't use
3rd party software/hardware, has no data mining, never asks for phone numbers, and has no open-source
codes/platforms. The Company offers PROMO CODE: PRIVACY, a 15% savings good for five (5) years on any of
Sekur's subscription services. Viewers, please tune in next time for the newest cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur
Privacy & Sekur Security– Weekly Hack" segment. The on-screen QR code is available during the shows to
download more info or visit Sekur Private Data, Ltd. – https://sekurprivatedata.com/, http:/sekur.com/ and
https://sekurvpn.com/. Privacy has arrived! The interview will air on the FOX Business Network on Monday, April
22, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

About BHG Financial:

BHG Financial is transforming the financial industry, leveraging data, analytics, and cutting-edge technology to
become one of the best sources for high-performing loans and the creator of one of the country's largest community
bank loan and product networks. Since 2001, BHG has originated over $15 billion in loan solutions for top-quality
borrowers, which community and midsize banks can access via a state-of-the-art loan delivery platform. BHG
Financials' dedication to providing services that meet the needs of its clients has led to the creation of an entire
family of brands that range from business, consumer, and SBA 7(a) loans to credit cards, risk management
services, and point-of-sale financing - https://bhgfinancial.com.

About La Rosa Holdings Corp. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC):

                                                                                               Page 5 of 7
  New to The Street TV Announces Five Corporate Guest Interviews, Episode 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A
                         Sponsored Programming, Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30....

La Rosa Holdings Corp. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC) is a holding company for five agent-centric, technology-
integrated, cloud-based, multi-service real estate segments. In addition to providing person-to-person residential
and commercial real estate brokerage services to the public, the Company cross-sells ancillary technology-based
products and services primarily to its sales agents and the sales agents associated with their franchisees. La
Rosa's business is organized based on the services they provide internally to their agents and the public, which are
residential and commercial real estate brokerage, franchising, real estate brokerage education and coaching, and
property management - https://larosaholdings.com/.

About Peter Goldstein:

Peter Goldstein is a seasoned entrepreneur, capital markets expert, and investor with over 35 years of diverse
international business experience. Throughout his career, he's held pivotal roles, including CEO, chairman,
investment banker, founder, board member, investor, and advisor to public, private, and emerging growth
companies. Peter's achievements span capital markets, specializing in equity financing, strategic planning, and
transaction structuring. These include numerous successful IPOs, M&A, uplisting, reverse merger transactions,
private placements, and crowdfunding campaigns. He's the founder of Exchange Listing, LLC, dedicated to
facilitating growth companies' listings on esteemed exchanges like NASDAQ and the NYSE, and Emmis Capital, a
specialized boutique fund investing in global small and microcap pre-IPO growth companies -
https://exchangelistingllc.com/ & https://emmiscap.com/.

About Performance Golf:

Performance Golf is a leading online golf instruction company that provides golfers of all levels with the tools and
resources they need to take their game to the next level. Performance Golf aims to help 1 million amateur golfers
play the best golf of their lives and enjoy every minute. Everything a golfer needs to reach their full potential is
available at Performance Golf, LLC. Performance Golf has grown into one of the world's leading online golf
instruction companies by consistently providing the highest quality instruction and resources available to
experienced and novice golfers alike. Play the best golf of your life every day. Join Performance Golf -
https://www.performancegolf.com/.

About DevvStream Holdings, Inc. (CBOE: DESG) (OTCQB: DSTRF) (FSE: CQ0):

DevvStream Holdings, Inc. (CBOE: DESG) (OTCQB: DSTRF) (FSE: CQ0) is a technology-based ESG company
that advances the development and monetization of environmental assets, with an initial focus on carbon markets.
DevvStream works with governments and corporations worldwide to achieve their sustainability goals by
implementing curated green technology projects that generate renewable energy, improve energy efficiencies,
eliminate or reduce emissions, and sequester carbon directly from the air. DevvStream also helps these
organizations meet their net zero goals by providing them access to high-quality carbon credits -
https://devvstream.com/.

About Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM):

Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) is a leading Company in climate reversing technologies,
a provider of sustainable solutions to improve environmental health, promote sustainable practices, and deliver eco-
friendly products and services. SGTM aims to make significant contributions to global sustainability; learn more by
visiting the Company website, https://thesustainablegreenteam.com/, SGTM's YouTube Channel, corporate
commercial            - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_0rLESvJJ0,             corporate          video          -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJ7Dp9Coi88&t=1s and                     SGTM's                Blogs               -
https://thesustainablegreenteam.com/sgtm-blog.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

                                                                                               Page 6 of 7
  New to The Street TV Announces Five Corporate Guest Interviews, Episode 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A
                         Sponsored Programming, Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30....

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About New to The Street:New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running
US and International sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street."
Since 2009, New to The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S . television
networks. The Nielsen-rated and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US
and international markets. FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg and the FOX Business Network
as sponsored programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form
paid programming - https://newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all filings of the Companies
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT:

New to The StreetMonica Brennanmonica@NewtoTheStreet.comhttps ://newtothestreet.com/1-917-330-2564

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement          is       available                         at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/4f0632ef-48fc-4e36-bb4c-2107a4e36581

New to The Street TV Announces Interviews, Episode 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A Sponsored Programming,
Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET and Episode 569 Airing on The FOX Business Network, Monday, April 22,
2024, at 10:30 PM PT

Show 568/569: 1).BHG Financial 2)– La Rosa Holdings Corp. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC) 3). Performance Golf
4).DevvStream Holdings, Inc. (CBOE: DESG) (OTCQB: DSTRF) (FSE: CQ0) 5). Sustainable Green Team, Ltd
(OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) 6).Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®) -
newtothestreet.com


Load-Date: April 12, 2024

                                                                                             Page 7 of 7
New to The Street TV Announces Five Corporate Guest Interviews, Episode 568 Airing on Bloomberg TV as A
                       Sponsored Programming, Saturday, April 13, 2024, at 6:30....




