

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                              SHANE CALLAHAN NAMED CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER




              SHANE CALLAHAN NAMED CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
                                                States News Service
                                                April 1, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 504 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: NASHVILLE, Tenn.

Body


The following information was released by Vanderbilt University:

Shane Callahan, an experienced leader in technology and information security, has been named Vanderbilt
University's chief information officer. He had been Vanderbilt's first chief information security officer since January
2022. His new role at the university starts on April 1, 2024.

Vanderbilt's chief information officer is the senior leader responsible for the coordination of the information
technology function across the university. The CIO is charged with providing strategic and operational leadership
throughout the enterprise in all aspects of information technology planning that advance the Vanderbilt mission and
facilitate the operation of the university. "Shaneis a great choice for this role because of the proven, steady
leadership that he's already demonstrated as Vanderbilt's inaugural chief information security officer. His strong
technical expertise coupled with demonstrated commitment to the university and its mission make him ideally suited
to lead Vanderbilt into the future," said Brett Sweet, vice chancellor for finance, information technology and chief
financial officer.

Callahan will continue his work with the VUIT team to enhance the university's cybersecurity posture, modernize the
data warehouse, support the university's AI efforts and provide streamlined support to faculty, staff and students.

He will work with stakeholders across the university and serve as an expert adviser to senior management to
develop, implement and maintain enterprise-wide information security technologies, compliance policies and
disaster recovery measures.

To date, Callahan has built a significantly expanded information security team charged with identifying and reporting
on security risks and ensuring the overall protection of university data across platforms. He and his team are
managing the series of training and educational initiatives launched in fall 2021.

"I'm pleased to continue the work we are doing at Vanderbilt University to plan an institutional technology roadmap,"
Callahan said. "We have an excellent team and I'm proud of the work we've accomplished so far, as well as excited
to start the work we have ahead of us."

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 2
                           SHANE CALLAHAN NAMED CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

For more than 20 years, Callahan has held technology and leadership roles, including vice president and chief
information security officer of naviHealth, an Optum/UnitedHealth company. Previously, Callahan served four years
of active duty in the Air Force and 12 years in the Navy Reserves, where he focused on cyber/information warfare.
He also has held leadership positions at Deloitte and Tractor Supply Co.

Callahan holds a degree in computer information systems from Park University, a master's from Trevecca
Nazarene University and a master's certificate in project management from Villanova University. He also serves on
several industry boards and is a graduate of the FBI CISO Academy. A resident of Nashville for 20 years, he lives in
the area with his wife, Brianne, and their three children.


Load-Date: April 2, 2024


  
