

                                                                              Page 1 of 7
       SPEECH BY FOREIGN MINISTER BAERBOCK AT THE CONFERENCE "THE NATIONAL SECURITY
                                   STRATEGY ONE YEAR ON"




 SPEECH BY FOREIGN MINISTER BAERBOCK AT THE CONFERENCE "THE
          NATIONAL SECURITY STRATEGY ONE YEAR ON"
                                               States News Service
                                               July 1, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 3606 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BERLIN

Body


The following information was released by the Federal Foreign Office of Germany:

A hacker attack against the IT systems of 100 local authorities in North Rhine-Westphalia municipal offices, welfare
offices offline, even hospitals are affected. That was on 30 October 2023.

A drone hits the largest nuclear power plant in Europe, in Zaporizhzhia. Just a three-hour flight away from Berlin.
That was on 7 April 2024.

Some 700,000 litres of water contaminated with heating oil pumped out of 140 cellars in the Augsburg area alone.
Thousands of people evacuated simultaneously. That would once have been called a once-in-a -century flood.
Today we face this threat every few years. We still have vivid images in our heads from June, just a few weeks ago.

These are not scenes from a disaster movie. These are three events that happened during the last few months.
Examples that show us that our country is vulnerable. That our lives have become less secure.These examples that
show that security is the task of our times.

When we began drafting the National Security Strategy two years ago, our work was shaped by our awareness of
all this.

Russia's brutal war of aggression against Ukraine had begun only a few weeks previously. It marked the start of a
new era in Europe. It was a wake-up call, but by no means the only danger to our security.

Threats which initially appear less visible are also hitting us all the harder today. The consequences of the climate
crisis, which has been highlighted again in such a devastating fashion by the floods, are one example. As is the
disastrous impact of cyber attacks, which I feel are not receiving enough attention. They are directed against
companies, as well as hospitals and political parties. Often they are dismissed as one-off incidents. However, they
too lie at the heart of our National Security Strategy.

                                                                             Page 2 of 7
      SPEECH BY FOREIGN MINISTER BAERBOCK AT THE CONFERENCE "THE NATIONAL SECURITY
                                  STRATEGY ONE YEAR ON"

Being able to react in unison to these security challenges, to respond together in an overarching and integrated
manner is the quintessence of the National Security Strategy, which we officially adopted one year ago and which
we want to discuss today.

That's why we've come together for a working conference with various panels. Because our task today is not to
reinvent strategies but to ask ourselves: how far have we come during the last year?

The Strategy and this was something special for our country is not only about our robustness, even though that's an
important aspect of our national security at present, but also about connecting our country's robustness to the
question as to how we can make our society more robust, that's to say more resilient. At times when we also have
to do everything to protect our livelihoods.

That's the essence of integrated security. And, of course, we including the many journalists here today, to whom I
would like to extend a warm welcome then have to ask ourselves the bold question: by what percentage has
Germany become more secure during the last few years? Ten, twenty or thirty percent?

But it's clear to us that this is not about bold headlines, but about structural resilience, which often cannot be
measured in figures because we don't know where the next cyber attack will take place.

To be blunt, a strategy is not a panacea which spells out the right solution to every situation. Rather, the object and
purpose of strategies is to set priorities, to determine goals and principles. And not only to strengthen the
cooperation among ministries but also between the German Government and the European level, NATO, with
federal states, municipalities and society, in order to create security. That's to say, in order to be able to act in an
integrated manner when our security is challenged.

Or to put it a bit flippantly: a security strategy is like a GPS system, a navigation system, which tells us how we can
move safely into the future, but cannot of course foresee every red light or the dog that suddenly runs across the
street.

Rather, a system which tells us in situations which no one can foresee how the key stakeholders can work together
securely.

In awareness that a strategy, a mere paper, cannot make our country more secure but that what is needed above
all is a change in mindset. The confidence of realising that we have to take responsibility for our own security and
that we're up to this task.

The confidence that we are stronger together, especially in our federal system, which we sometimes find
challenging. This solidarity is based on the responsibility of our society as a whole, of each and every one of us.

The task of politicians and I'm therefore grateful that so many colleagues from Parliament are here today is not only
to ensure this solidarity but to invest in it.

For that reason, too, our Security Strategy not only contains questions concerning robust democracy but also about
strengthening public institutions, courts or the police. However, our social welfare system also plays a role. After all,
we know that social cohesion holds societies and democracies together.

That's why we shaped this Security Strategy together with you with the Bundestag, the federal states, the
municipalities, all ministries as well as through many citizens' forums.

Last year I was asked why we were travelling through the country to promote a National Security Strategy. I replied
that it was because this National Security Strategy is for people, and people should know about it.

Not only people in your municipalities but companies and universities in particular. And I'm pleased that my Latvian
colleague is here today, because this also affects our European partners.

                                                                             Page 3 of 7
      SPEECH BY FOREIGN MINISTER BAERBOCK AT THE CONFERENCE "THE NATIONAL SECURITY
                                  STRATEGY ONE YEAR ON"

So when we now look at how far we've come, the most visible and important thing is certainly our stronger
international cooperation aimed at enhancing European robustness.

And I now want to kick off our discussion today by looking at individual areas before we then address them more
intensively in the panels.

The strongest signal we've sent together regarding our security is Finland's accession to NATO last year as well as,
thankfully and finally, Sweden's accession this year.

As a result of Finland's accession alone, NATO now has an additional 60 cutting-edge F35 fighter jets. Not to
mention 19,000 soldiers and 238,000 reservists. All players who were already integrated into NATO systems
through close cooperation. However, the most important thing is not only that Finland's accession has strengthened
our capabilities but that Putin's plan to divide NATO and possibly destroy it, which is part of this war of aggression,
hasn't worked out. On the contrary.

Putin wanted to weaken NATO and instead he's strengthened it. NATO is stronger than ever before although it has
to be said that it faces bigger challenges than ever before.

The second key point, which is also visible because it can be quantified in figures, is that not only has the European
pillar of NATO been strengthened during the last two years, and especially during the last year something we
Europeans will highlight at the summit in Washington. For our responsibility as the strongest country within the
European Union has also increased.

As you all know, Germany now invests more than two percent in its own robustness and defence. What's more,
we've launched the European Sky Shield initiative and we're transferring a brigade to Lithuania.

I'm certain that we would have discussed these points very, very differently here three years ago. Or you would
have said: "What's this woman talking about?"

But it's very clear that we certainly cannot sit back now in 2024.

That's why this year is definitely about more than simply taking stock. It represents a small intermediate step and a
mandate. I'm therefore grateful that we will hear how Latvia sees things in a moment. We were together just two
weeks ago at the Council of the Baltic Sea States. We see that Putin's aim is to challenge Europe's security further.

Putin's Russia will remain the biggest threat to our security in Europe for the foreseeable future. And that's why our
security measures can only be a first step.

In terms of ideology, Putin's Russia is heading towards totalitarianism. Vladimir Putin's imperialism will not stop at
Ukraine. This has been apparent time and again in his speeches. Looking at the figures, we can see that Russia is
preparing its armed forces for a major war, with plans for a war economy for many years to come.

For economic reasons alone, he can't simply say that the war will end tomorrow. We have to keep reminding
ourselves of that.

But, of course, our Eastern European neighbours in particular are frequently irritated by the debates in our country
when we say: well, we don't want to get drawn into this war. First of all, who wants that? No one. Everyone wants to
live in peace.

And secondly, my Eastern European partners and friends often tell me: "The debate in your country is a bit of a
luxury. In our countries, we don't ask ourselves whether we want to be drawn into the conflict because Putin is right
on our doorstep."

That's the situation in countries which have a border either with Russia or with Belarus or Ukraine, where we have
witnessed very targeted needling on the part of Russia on repeated occasions during the last weeks and even

                                                                             Page 4 of 7
      SPEECH BY FOREIGN MINISTER BAERBOCK AT THE CONFERENCE "THE NATIONAL SECURITY
                                  STRATEGY ONE YEAR ON"

months. This needling has been directed against NATO, the EU's external borders whether it be buoys, or certain
GPS systems, thus preventing Finnair, for example, from landing in the Baltic states.

That's why the points we made plain in the National Security Strategy are so crucial and important to us: we are
tailoring our own policies to this very reality, a reality which we wouldn't wish for, which we did not choose but which
is now the reality in our world. We will defend our Europe, every square centimetre of our Europe, as well as our
freedom.

And we're aiming to ensure that our deterrence is so clear and evident that this day will never come. And a stronger
defence and deterrence through our NATO capabilities is not the only thing that's crucial. For, of course, the
standing of the Federal Republic itself as a very strong major player is also key: As you all know, we launched a
special fund of 100 billion euro for the Bundeswehr to this end. The two percent which I've already mentioned, but
also the structural issues which need to be addressed, such as the proposals recently put forward by Defence
Minister Boris Pistorius on restructuring or reorganising military service, cannot be resolved by snapping our fingers.

Not because we want things to be that way but because it's the task of our times if we take our responsibility
seriously.

However, we also know that we can only answer the major issues of our age if we define our defence capabilities
and our deterrence with our strong partners in the Alliance within NATO, and especially within the EU.

These, too, are key elements which we'll debate further. And we'll do this within the framework of an integrated
security approach.

I want to say to the many men and women we see in uniform at this venue that I believe you are more aware of this
than anyone else because you experience every day that this investment was actually long overdue if we are to
shape our robustness in the necessary manner.

However, we all know that security is about more than the military, more than the absence of war.

Security is also about stable supply chains for our companies. It's also about safe drinking water for our citizens and
a reliable electricity supply for our hospitals. And it's also about being able to vote without disinformation in the
preceding days distorting any debates and consequently the election results.

We as a society are vulnerable in all of these areas. Among other things, therefore, integrated security is about
taking the problem of disinformation seriously.

At the end of last year, an analysis unit at the Federal Foreign Office uncovered a campaign by the Doppelgnger
network in the social media. It involved 50,000 fake accounts, which cannot always be identified as fake
straightaway. A total of 50,000 fake accounts which published more than a million items containing lies and pro-
Russian messages against the German Government within a four-week period. Artificial intelligence was used
and the messages were made to always look slightly different. But the essence, the core lie of the messages was
always the same.

Today the target is the German Government, tomorrow it's NATO and the day after tomorrow civil society
stakeholders. The aim of such campaigns is always the same: to attack the fundamental pillars of our democracy
deploying disinformation. By spreading uncertainty, by trying to exert influence. To identify and address this at an
earlier stage, the German Government established a unit to identify foreign disinformation. It's attached to the
Federal Interior Ministry and consists of experts from different ministries. This has been done in close coordination
with European partners, some of whom have already set up bodies of this kind. We've taken this step because it's
not enough to look at such attacks in isolation. Rather we have to be able to spot when they happen simultaneously
in different federal states or even simultaneously in different EU countries. It's no coincidence that France and also
Germany were targeted to a greater extent just before the European elections. Rather, there are strategies and
networks behind this, some of which have been working on this for years.

                                                                             Page 5 of 7
      SPEECH BY FOREIGN MINISTER BAERBOCK AT THE CONFERENCE "THE NATIONAL SECURITY
                                  STRATEGY ONE YEAR ON"

We now know that autocrats in the wider world and extremists at home are working hand in hand and we have to
protect our democracy from this very threat.

That we have to strengthen our resilience also applies to our economy. That, too, is addressed in the National
Security Strategy. For too long in the case of Russia, we were confident that economic relations will ultimately make
both sides more cooperative and that these relations would be used on a cooperative basis.

We know today that trade doesn't automatically bring change and that blind hope is not a security strategy, indeed
it's sometimes a security risk.

Making the same mistake twice is irresponsible. Instead, we need a policy which doesn't ignore risks, creates the
right conditions and makes us more independent. The keyword is diversification, which is also anchored in our
China Strategy.

We need trade agreements, raw materials partnerships and if necessary in the case of market distortions economic
measures in line with WTO rules, tariffs, for example.

But we also need companies which make responsible decisions and minimise the risks instead of outsourcing the
cost to policy-makers when the going gets tough.

That, too, is part of our Security Strategy: we need greater cooperation between policy-makers and business in
order to ensure economic security. For the more diverse our supply chains are, the more secure our country is.

In this sphere, too, there's no magic solution, no automatic processes. Instead, we have to look time and again at
individual sectors and branches to identify the right balance in the interaction between business and the state.

We see that now, for example, with regard to the screening process for Chinese components in the 5G network.
These are not easy discussions because, on the one hand, we naturally have an interest in ensuring that our mobile
networks are expanded quickly, cheaply and across the nation.

And if we act now, we also have to answer the question: how can we ensure that the expansion is not slowed down
in this situation?

On the other hand, it's clear that we cannot afford to allow infrastructure in key areas to be exploited by states that
we cannot completely trust.

In a fully digitalised world, no car, no lorry and no job will function without a mobile network in future.

That's why we have to protect the digital space as our society's central nervous system. We agreed on this goal in
the National Security Strategy.

We can achieve this with the right screening procedures for 5G, but above all with much better exchanges and
better cooperation on cyber attacks. That's why we're transforming the Federal Office for Information Security into a
central office for the Federal Government and the federal states. We're also taking this step because we know that
humans and human error are still among the biggest weak spots. And we know that for that very reason we have to
work together, also with universities, on research projects. The question has to be asked: what does this have to do
with security? And in the case of municipalities taking local investment decisions, an awareness has to be
developed that ultimately such decisions can also have an impact on our country's security.

The National Security Strategy is intended to help us look at priorities which go beyond the narrow focus of day-to-
day crisis management. However, it is also intended to help ensure that we have mechanisms that work should a
crisis occur.

                                                                             Page 6 of 7
      SPEECH BY FOREIGN MINISTER BAERBOCK AT THE CONFERENCE "THE NATIONAL SECURITY
                                  STRATEGY ONE YEAR ON"

For we've also learned during the last few years that it's crucial to realise that in major crises but not only in major
crises that affect hard security in the form of war and peace but also natural disasters lives can be lost when things
are not rehearsed in advance, systems are completely outdated or early-warning systems have been switched off.

Natural disasters have already driven millions of people around the world from their homes. Across the globe, we
see that the climate crisis has aggravated conflicts and famines.

We can no longer afford to say that we didn't know all of this. And, unfortunately, many people in our own country
have also experienced this themselves during the last few years. That's why the Federal Government Strategy on
Climate Foreign Policy is part of the National Security Strategy. This is an area where we have to work together
more closely. In the climate negotiations, for example, within the context of which we decided in Dubai last year to
transition away from fossil fuels and to focus on clean energy.

But we also made it clear during the negotiations that we have to cooperate much more closely when it comes to
the effects of climate crisis, adjustment, loss and damage and disaster risk reduction.

We know that we're already experiencing the 1.1 or 1.2 degree world. Every additional tenth of a degree in terms of
global warming will make us less secure or, if we prevent it from happening, more secure.

None of these issues are easy. Especially when it comes to implementation. What does this actually mean when it
comes to heating our homes or expanding networks?

It means that society in its entirety joins in the discussion. That's why it's so important to the Federal Foreign Office
and all ministries that we see this as a debate and strategy for society as a whole for the next few years. Our aim is
to stop us from reverting to old patterns of behaviour.

And I want to be very clear here. For whenever things get difficult, we tend as humans to fall back on old reflexes. I
get a bit irritated when people now start saying again: "Well, we weren't actually that dependent on Russian gas. It
wasn't that bad."

As if the winter we all wondered whether we would get through was 20 years ago and not just over a year.

Or when we see discussions in which support for Ukraine is treated as if it was a matter of charity and not like the
important issue it actually is: an investment in our own national security. An investment in the defence of our peace
and our freedom. There couldn't be a more important national interest.

And when the undertone of many comments is: "Security's all well and good but it shouldn't cost anything."

That, too, sounds like a debate from another planet. For it would be fatal if we were forced to say in a few years'
time: "We've protected the check on public borrowing but we've lost our European peace order."

That will be the question that our children ask us in a few years' time. I travel around the country a lot and I
completely understand that many people long to return to the past, that they say: "Everything was easier back
then."

If you take a closer look, I doubt that was always true. But feelings always weigh more heavily.

The task of decision-makers, particularly in politics and business, is not to shy away at such moments. Rather, they
have to make it clear that security cannot be taken for granted and that we have to invest in our security.

That the crises are not far away, they are on our doorstep.

In that sense, it will be crucial during the next few weeks and, as we see, during the next few years in the case of
Europe that we look beyond the present and don't think merely in terms in quarterly figures or legislative terms.

                                                                             Page 7 of 7
      SPEECH BY FOREIGN MINISTER BAERBOCK AT THE CONFERENCE "THE NATIONAL SECURITY
                                  STRATEGY ONE YEAR ON"

That the Strategy highlights the necessity that our free Europe, in which we have lived all these years, remains a
given for our children. And the good thing is that during the last two and a half years since the start of the brutal war
of aggression against Ukraine, we Europeans have made it clear that we shouldn't be underestimated.

In times when European societies, European democracy is needed, we were there and were able to overcome
supposed differences or even marked differences.

For when everyone asked themselves what kind of Europe they wanted their children to live in, the answer was, of
course, always the same: in a free Europe, in a Europe which not only upholds but continues to live its own
democracy.

The Federal Republic of Germany is a strong country at the heart of Europe.

With the EU, we have one of the world's biggest internal markets.

We have an incredible number of friends around the world and we have 83 million citizens who know that if we stick
together, if we remain a strong democracy, then we'll continue to live in peace and freedom.


Load-Date: July 6, 2024


  
