

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 2
                                    'Doomsday Clock' stays at 90 seconds before midnight




                   'Doomsday Clock' stays at 90 seconds before midnight
                                                         Greenwire
                                                  January 23, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 Politico LLC All Rights Reserved

Section: TODAY'S STORIES; Vol. 10; No. 9
Length: 492 words

Body


By Rebekah Alvey Conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, rising nuclear threats, and climate change have kept
the "Doomsday Clock" at 90 seconds to midnight for the second consecutive year, according to an international
science nonprofit that uses the clock as a teaching tool. The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists on Tuesday cited
record temperatures as signs countries aren't moving fast enough on climate, but the group sounded a positive note
about the growth of renewable energy. "On climate, the story has really been a mixed story, there's a fair amount of
bad news for sure but there's also some good news," said Ambuj Sagar, deputy director and professor at the Indian
Institute of Technology in Delhi.

"We're moving in the right direction but not as fast or as deeply as one would like." The nonprofit science group was
created in 1945 in response to the detonation of atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan. In 1947, the
group set the Doomsday Clock at seven minutes to midnight and has moved that time forward and back based on
nuclear, biological, climate and other threats. Last year, the clock was moved to 90 seconds , the closest it has ever
been to midnight, the symbolic point of humanity's destruction. That the time hasn't moved in a year doesn't signal
stability, Rachel Bronson, the group's CEO and president, said during a panel discussion Tuesday. Last year was
the hottest on record, greenhouse gas emissions continued to rise and extreme weather events caused devastation
around the world, Sagar said. Additionally, the climate policies and pledges world leaders haven't put the Earth on
track to meet the 2015 Paris Agreement goals. But there are positive signs, notably the rise of renewable energy.
Sagar noted that $1.7 trillion was invested last year in clean energy and that countries agreed at the U.N. climate
talks in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, last year to triple renewable energy deployment and double energy efficiency
by 2030. Global cooperation needed to address climate change, Sagar said, will be difficult because of competition
between countries to be leaders in green technology and varying national interests. The Bulletin of the Atomic
Scientists pointed to conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza, a nuclear arms race between the United States, Russia and
China, and the unregulated growth of artificial intelligence as contributing factors for the clock this year. There
needs to be equal attention in political and policy circles on adaptation and disaster recovery, Sagar said. There
must also be an understanding that while the whole world contributes to climate change, not every individual or
country has the capacity, resources and privilege to take equitable action. "I think individuals across the world have
to make sure that their political leaders really understand this reality and therefore push for climate action, but push
it in a way that's fair and equitable and just," Sagar said.


Load-Date: February 20, 2024

                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                  'Doomsday Clock' stays at 90 seconds before midnight




