

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 2
                      Charities Aid Foundation: Public Backs Charity Access to AI, Research Finds




      Charities Aid Foundation: Public Backs Charity Access to AI, Research
                                      Finds
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           January 29, 2024 Monday 1:18 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 634 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: LONDON, England

Body


The Charities Aid Foundation issued the following news release:

***

"AI must not be the privilege of the few"

***

People around the world recognise the benefits that Artificial Intelligence can bring to further charitable causes,
according to new research from the Charities Aid Foundation (https://www.cafonline.org/about-us/research/what-
the-public-think-of-charities-using-ai) (CAF). Indeed, most people (70%) believe that efforts should be made to help
charities of different sizes and resources to access AI.

Ahead of Microsoft's first Global Non-Profit Leaders Summit in Seattle, which a thousand non-profit leaders are
expected to attend, CAF is encouraging technology companies to consider how charities of all sizes can access the
opportunities opened up by AI.

With the pros and cons of AI never far from the headlines, the research sought to understand views about the
opportunities and risks to charities of using AI. For one of the first major studies on this issue, the research involved
more than 6,000 people in 10 countries: UK, USA, Australia, Japan, Poland, Indonesia, Kenya, India, Brazil and
Turkey.

Although the research found some have their reservations, people are generally supportive about charities using AI.
The most compelling opportunities for charities are those that help them to have a greater direct human benefit.
More than a quarter (28%) thought the most exciting opportunity was how AI could help with a faster response to
disasters, and 25% thought that it was the potential ability of AI to allow charities to help more people.

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                    Charities Aid Foundation: Public Backs Charity Access to AI, Research Finds

The research found that people who donate more to charity tend to be more positive about charities using AI, with
those considered higher donors in their country being more likely to appreciate the benefits. However, people
believe that charities should be cautious and transparent about how they use AI. The significant majority (83%) of
charity donors said they would pay attention to how a charity said it was using AI, with higher donors more likely to
take notice.

Neil Heslop OBE, Chief Executive of the Charities Aid Foundation said:

"AI must not be the privilege of the few. We must work together with the technology industry to ensure it is
accessible for small and large charities. Digital advances have great potential to support charities to further their
missions and accelerate social progress. As a starting point, AI could help target disaster relief more effectively,
decrease the time spent on administrative tasks and improve operations.

"Charities need to also remain alert to the risks, stay close to the human essence of their cause and communicate
clearly with donors to further social impact."

***

Notes to Editors

1. What the public think of charities using AI (https://www.cafonline.org/about-us/research/what-the-public-think-of-
charities-using-ai)

2. Neil Heslop is speaking at a plenary session, 'How are Nonprofits using AI?', at Microsoft's Global Nonprofit
Leaders Summit (https://nonprofitsummit.microsoft.com/home_public) on 31st January 2024 in Washington, US.

3. In 2024, Charities Aid Foundation (https://www.cafonline.org/) marks 100 years as an organisation at the centre
of the giving world. In a century, we have grown to become a leading charity that exists to accelerate progress in
society towards a fair and sustainable future for all, distributing over pound sterling1 billion to charities around the
world last year. CAF uses its unique position to bring charities, business, and philanthropists together to simplify
how people give, allowing charities to focus more on the great work they do. Together, we give more.

***

Original text here: https://www.cafonline.org/about-us/press-office/public-backs-charity-access-to-ai-research-finds

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8466681 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: February 3, 2024


  
