

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 4
                         Joint Statement for the 2nd Australia- Malaysia Annual Leaders' Meeting




      Joint Statement for the 2nd Australia-Malaysia Annual Leaders' Meeting
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            March 5, 2024 Tuesday 7:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 2249 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: MELBOURNE, Australia

Body


Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese issued the following joint statement on March 4, 2024, with Malaysian
Prime Minister Dato' Seri Anwar bin Ibrahim at the 2nd Australia-Malaysia Annual Leaders' Meeting:

***

1. The Prime Minister of Australia, The Honourable Anthony Albanese MP, welcomed the Prime Minister of
Malaysia, The Honourable Dato' Seri Anwar bin Ibrahim, to Melbourne for the 2nd Australia-Malaysia Annual
Leaders' Meeting on 4 March 2024.

2. The Leaders noted the excellent state of the bilateral relationship and acknowledged their countries' shared
interests in regional stability, respect for sovereignty and fostering shared economic prosperity. The Leaders
encouraged regular ministerial engagement, including through the Annual Foreign Ministers' Meeting, to progress
bilateral cooperation in the lead-up to the 70th anniversary of Australia's diplomatic presence in Malaysia in 2025.
The Leaders acknowledged the deep community links through family, education, business and tourism that provide
a strong foundation for friendship between the two countries.

3. The Leaders reaffirmed the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between the two countries and commended
the substantial progress of cooperation across its three pillars: economic prosperity; society and technology; and
defence and regional security, which are fundamental elements in concluding Memoranda of Understanding on
cooperation in the digital economy, youth and sports, higher education, cyber security, and a practical arrangement
on implementation of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT).

Economic prosperity

4. The Leaders recognised the potential of their respective economies and expressed confidence in the continued
growth of bilateral economic ties and two-way trade and investment. Prime Minister Anwar welcomed Australian
businesses to participate in high-technology manufacturing projects and emerging industries in Malaysia, such as

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 4
                     Joint Statement for the 2nd Australia- Malaysia Annual Leaders' Meeting

smart manufacturing, digital economy, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, artificial intelligence, halal industry and
renewable energy.

5. The Leaders agreed to prioritise efforts to energise and modernise the Australia-Malaysia partnership, to ensure
both economies are digitally advanced, safe and resilient. They are committed to deepening practical cooperation
on the digital economy in order for both countries to achieve shared goals. The Leaders further acknowledged the
ongoing efforts to deepen business-led cooperation on the digital economy, cyber, renewables and critical minerals.

6. The Leaders acknowledged Australia and Malaysia's close cooperation in advancing the Indo-Pacific Economic
Framework for Prosperity (IPEF). The Leaders welcomed the recent signing of a first-of-its-kind IPEF Supply Chain
Agreement, and the substantial conclusion of negotiations for the IPEF Clean Economy Agreement and IPEF Fair
Economy Agreement. Both countries will continue to work together to progress negotiations for the IPEF Trade
Pillar.

7. The Leaders welcomed the outcomes from the 13th Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization
(WTO) in February 2024. They reaffirmed the importance of the multilateral rules-based trading system with the
WTO at its core and reiterated their commitment to strengthen and reform the WTO, including by restoring a fully
functioning dispute settlement system this year. The Leaders also welcomed growing economic integration through
the upgraded Agreement Establishing the ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA), the
Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (RCEP) and the Comprehensive and Progressive
Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP).

8. The Leaders highlighted the two countries' complementary, comprehensive, and resilient trade and investment
relationship, based on a common interest in free, fair and open trade. The Leaders welcomed growing economic
integration through MAFTA. In this vein, the Leaders agreed to progress preparatory work on a General Review to
ensure MAFTA continues to deliver benefits for our two economies.

Society and technology

9. The Leaders welcomed the ambitious outcomes of COP28 and reaffirmed their respective commitments to
address climate change, including by transitioning to net zero by 2050. They welcomed an expansion of bilateral
cooperation on green shipping, maritime decarbonisation and the clean energy transition.

10. The Leaders highlighted the mutual economic and social benefits of longstanding education cooperation
between Australia and Malaysia. The Leaders agreed to continue to cultivate talented and interoperable workforces.
The Leaders noted that Malaysia continued to be a popular destination for Australian New Colombo Plan scholars
and Australia a popular destination for Malaysian students. Recognising the benefits of two-way exchange and
mobility, they encouraged further dialogue and engagement between academic institutions and think tanks to
empower regional voices.

11. Prime Minister Anwar updated Prime Minister Albanese on Malaysia's Madani agenda, which lays the way
forward for a Malaysian society that encapsulates the values of justice, sustainable living and creative and
innovative ways of thinking. Prime Minister Albanese commended Prime Minister Anwar's efforts, and the Leaders
underscored the importance of building and maintaining robust democratic institutions, supported by professional
and highly motivated civil services. The Leaders discussed ways to increase collaboration between respective
governments, including welcoming the establishment of the Australia-Malaysia Institutional Strengthening Program
to facilitate institutional exchanges between parliamentary and civil service agencies as well as advance
governance reform.

12. The Leaders acknowledged that the new MOU on Youth and Sports would fortify cooperation, pave the way for
mutually beneficial collaboration, including in youth vocational training, sports technology, sports science, sports
integrity matters including anti-doping, as well as research and development.

Defence and regional security

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 4
                     Joint Statement for the 2nd Australia- Malaysia Annual Leaders' Meeting

13 The Leaders acknowledged the two countries' deep and longstanding defence and security ties, which
complement regional stability. Both Leaders appreciated the ongoing practical cooperation and expertise shared for
over 30 years through the Malaysia-Australia Joint Defence Program. Prime Minister Albanese expressed
appreciation to Malaysia for continuing to host Australian personnel at the Royal Malaysian Air Force Base in
Butterworth. The Leaders acknowledged the continued contribution made by Rifle Company Butterworth and
Operation Gateway that has further deepened defence collaborations between both countries.

14. The Leaders welcomed the extensive maritime cooperation between Australia and Malaysia, and as maritime
nations, noted the importance of a peaceful and stable maritime domain. They acknowledged the importance of
strengthening cooperation to enhance maritime domain awareness, strengthen maritime security, and promote
understanding of the law of the sea.

15. The Leaders reiterated their commitment to reinforcing regional stability through continued cooperation on
traditional and non-traditional security issues, including countering terrorism, violent extremism, money laundering,
human trafficking and people smuggling and other transnational crimes, as well as fully implementing the Women,
Peace and Security agenda. The Leaders underlined their continued commitment to the Five Power Defence
Arrangements, which remain an indispensable anchor for security in the Indo-Pacific region.

16. The Leaders valued close cooperation between the two countries in the area of cybersecurity through existing
regional and international platforms. Recognising the cyber domain as the new frontier that requires collaboration to
increase security and resilience, both Leaders further welcomed initiatives to enhance cooperation on cyber
security, which would drive economic prosperity, protect national security, and promote international stability.

Regional and international issues

17. The Leaders reaffirmed their commitment to ASEAN centrality and ASEAN-led regional architecture. They
expressed their ongoing support for the implementation of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. The Leaders
looked forward to the 2024 ASEAN-Australia Special Summit to commemorate 50 years of Dialogue Partnership
and committed to working closely together to deliver summit outcomes, including during Malaysia's ASEAN
Chairmanship in 2025.

18. The Leaders reiterated their support for Timor-Leste's full ASEAN membership and highlighted the success of
the trilateral Australia-Malaysia-Timor-Leste capacity building program held in Kuala Lumpur in September 2023 to
strengthen Timor-Leste's ASEAN preparedness. The Leaders reaffirmed their commitment to continue providing
capacity building assistance to assist Timor-Leste on the implementation of the Roadmap for Timor-Leste's Full
Membership in ASEAN adopted by the ASEAN Leaders at the 42nd ASEAN Summit on 10 May 2023.

19. Prime Minister Albanese outlined the Quad's agenda for the region, including its strong support for ASEAN
centrality and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific.

20. The Leaders expressed their deep concern at the continued suffering of the people of Myanmar as a result of
the 2021 military coup and strongly condemned the continued acts of violence. Leaders urged the military regime to
take concrete action to immediately halt indiscriminate violence, denounce any escalation, release those unjustly
detained, allow safe and unimpeded access for the delivery of humanitarian assistance and to engage in inclusive
national dialogue. The Leaders reaffirmed their strong support for ASEAN-led efforts and the Five-Point Consensus
to address the political crisis in Myanmar, which should be implemented in its entirety.

21. The Leaders reiterated their shared concern about the dire humanitarian situation in Gaza following the 7
October attacks. They called for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire. All parties must respect civilian lives and
international humanitarian law. They repeated calls for safe, unimpeded and sustained humanitarian access in
Gaza, safe passage for civilians, and the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages. The Leaders
recognised that both countries have strongly advocated for de-escalation and the need for a political resolution that
achieves a two-state solution where Israelis and Palestinians can live in peace and security within internationally
agreed borders, based on the pre-1967 lines.

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 4
                      Joint Statement for the 2nd Australia- Malaysia Annual Leaders' Meeting

22. Leaders discussed the deeply concerning situation in Ukraine following Russia's invasion. They acknowledged
the impact of the crisis on the region, particularly on food and energy supplies. Consistent with UN General
Assembly Resolution No. ES-11/6 dated 23 February 2023, Leaders demanded Russia immediately withdraw its
military forces from the territory of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders, and underlined the need to
reach a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in Ukraine as soon as possible, consistent with the UN Charter,
including the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. They urged Russia to respect Ukraine's
sovereignty and territorial integrity. They called for unhindered access to humanitarian assistance for those in need
in Ukraine, as well as adherence to the applicable norms of international humanitarian and human rights law.

23. The Leaders acknowledged the upcoming tenth anniversary of the disappearance of Flight MH370 [8 March
2014], mourned the loss of lives and paid respects to the next of kin. The Leaders looked towards this year's tenth
anniversary of the downing of Flight MH17, and recognised this would be a difficult time for the next of kin. They
reaffirmed both countries' steadfast commitment to seeking truth, justice and accountability for the victims of the
downing of Flight MH17. Both Leaders reaffirmed their commitment to assist each other in providing humanitarian
assistance and disaster relief, and continuing to enhance cooperation in disaster risk reduction and emergency
management.

24. The Leaders reiterated their commitment to promoting an Indo-Pacific region that is open, stable, inclusive and
transparent, underpinned by respect for sovereignty and adherence to agreed rules and norms. They also reiterated
the importance of promoting dialogue and practical measures to reduce the risk of misunderstanding and
miscalculation as well as prevent conflict in the region.

25. The Leaders expressed serious concern about developments in the South China Sea and highlighted the
importance of freedom of navigation and overflight in accordance with international law. The Leaders emphasised
the need for all States to comply with international law, including the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea (UNCLOS).

26. The Leaders acknowledged the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait. They also noted that
we all have a stake in conflict prevention, and the importance of open communication, reassurance and
transparency.

27. The Leaders underscored the importance of promoting transparency and confidence-building among all
countries, and to promote peace and security in the region.

***

Original text here: https://www.pm.gov.au/media/joint-statement-2nd-australia-malaysia-annual-leaders-meeting

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8512760 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: March 5, 2024


  
