

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                                    2024 IAA Election Results and Presidential Address




                      2024 IAA Election Results and Presidential Address
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          January 11, 2024 Thursday 9:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 798 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: OTTAWA, Canada

Body


The International Actuarial Association issued the following news release on Jan. 10, 2024:

The International Actuarial Association (IAA) is pleased to announce that, at its meeting on November 20, 2023 in
Lisbon, Portugal, the Council of the IAA approved the following individuals to serve as Officers of the IAA effective
January 1, 2024.

President: Charles Cowling (UK)

President-Elect: Bozenna Hinton (Australia)

Immediate Past President: Micheline Dionne (Canada)

All terms of office are for one year ending on December 31, 2024

Mr. Cowling's involvement in the work of the IAA started in 2011 as a delegate of the Institute and Faculty of
Actuaries on the Pensions and Employee Benefits Committee. Most recently, he served as Chair of the Advance
Committee. In addition, he was a member of the Executive Committee, Chair of the Renewal Task Force, Vice-
Chair and Chair of Pensions and Employee Benefits Committee, IAA Delegate to the OECD/IOPS, IAA Delegate to
the IASB, and IAA Delegate to the PBSS Section. His complete bio is available online.

Mr. Cowling offered these comments upon assuming the position of IAA President:

I am delighted to be taking a leadership role in the Actuarial Profession at this challenging time. Actuaries have
always been known for their deep analytical skills in the areas of insurance and pensions. But more recently our risk
management and data analytical skills have proved invaluable in the areas of banking, data science, climate
change and pandemic modelling. Indeed the IAA team, composed of Rade Musulin and Simon Curtis, recently
came back from a very successful week of engagements at COP28 - thank you both. And we are now excited to be
doing more work on the UN's Sustainable Development Goals - particularly in the area of water-related risks.

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                                 2024 IAA Election Results and Presidential Address

Globally, we face many challenges and, as actuaries, we want to play our part in helping Society combat the impact
of climate change and solving some of the many difficult problems of protection gaps around the world. Too many
people have insufficient savings or financial protection in the event of disaster. We actuaries have an important role
to play in making the world a better and safer place for all.

However, there is one challenge in particular I want to focus on in my year as President - and that is the huge
opportunities, and threats, posed by artificial intelligence, or AI. AI is already changing our world in so many
ways. It is offering great medical advances and huge improvements in global productivity and growth. In the
actuarial world it is giving us access to ever more powerful tools and the ability to process huge amounts of data
and provide much better solutions to our clients. For example, actuaries are working with smallholder farmers in
Africa and South America, developing mobile phone apps that not only provide access to detailed short term and
long-term weather information, enabling much better management of crops; but they also provide easier access to
affordable insurance, ensuring farming communities are much better protected in the event of crop failure.

But AI also comes with threats - threats to privacy and intellectual property, threats from inappropriate usage of
data, threats from financial instability caused by the use of ever more complicated models in financial markets
whose impact isn't always fully understood. The Actuarial Profession has a really important role to play in
encouraging the responsible use of AI, supporting not only its ethical and professional use, but also promoting the
responsible development of AI in Society's interests. I will therefore, next year, be hosting the first global actuarial
summit on AI where we will bring experts together from around the world to debate and plan for how the actuarial
profession can best respond to the challenge of AI. Please look out for more communications on how you can
support the IAA's AI initiative in 2024.

Finally, I want to thank all our volunteers and member associations for your hard work, inspiring ideas and
wonderful support for the important work of the IAA - which is only possible with the fantastic collaboration and
cooperation of you all. Please do continue to give the IAA your support as we face ever greater challenges going in
to 2024.

In closing, I would like to thank my predecessors, Roseanne and Micheline, for their outstanding leadership and
diligence in pursuing the goals of the IAA. I have learnt so much from them and hope I can live up to the high
standards they have set.

I wish you all a Happy New Year and look forward to a successful and productive 2024.

***

Original                                              text                                          here:
https://www.actuaries.org/IAA/Documents/Publications/News_Releases/2024/News_Release_2024_Presidential_A
ddress_EN.pdf

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8439372 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 11, 2024


  
