

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
                              Top MSP: Magna5 Ranked in 2024 Channel Futures MSP 501




              Top MSP: Magna5 Ranked in 2024 Channel Futures MSP 501
                                                           PR Newswire
                                              June 21, 2024 Friday 2:07 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 865 words
Dateline: PITTSBURGH, June 21, 2024

Body


PR NewswirePITTSBURGH, June 21, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Magna5 has been named one of the world's top-
performing managed service providers (MSPs) in the prestigious 2024 Channel Futures MSP 501 rankings. This
list, a benchmark in the technology industry, ranks companies based on growth, profitability, and innovation.

 For 17 years, managed service providers around the globe have vied for inclusion on this definitive list. The
Channel Futures MSP 501 survey evaluates MSPs using a quantitative methodology based on annual revenue,
profitability measured by EBITDA, and recurring revenue. MSPs that qualify for the list undergo a rigorous review by
the Channel Futures research team and editors. The unique ranking method weighs financial performance
according to long-term health and viability, commitment to recurring revenue, and operational efficiency."Our
inclusion in the 2024 Channel Futures MSP 501 highlights the relentless dedication and innovative spirit of our
team," said Robert Farina, CEO of Magna5. "This recognition validates our commitment to delivering top-tier
managed services that empower our clients to succeed. We are honored to be among the industry's best and will
continue to push the boundaries of excellence in service and technology."The companies that make up the MSP
501 are the best in the technology services industry, delivering outstanding vendor and platform-neutral advice and
value to customers. This year, the MSP 501 generated nearly $25 billion in aggregate revenue, with average
recurring revenue growth of 19%. Many of their services and technology offerings focus on customer needs in the
areas of AI, cloud, security, collaboration, networking, help desk, and remote monitoring and management."The
2024 Channel Futures MSP 501 winners survived a challenging market and emerged as the highest performing and
most innovative IT providers in the industry today," said Dave Raffo, MSP editor and MSP 501 project manager.
"The most impressive thing about the MSP 501 winners is they deliver for their customers every day. These are the
most innovative, driven, and successful MSPs in a fiercely competitive industry.""For a managed service provider to
attain a spot on the Channel Futures MSP 501 everything must be operating at peak performance. This list
represents the most productive, profitable, fastest-growing, organizations in the technology industry focused on
driving their customers to new heights," said Bob DeMarzo, VP Content, Informa Channels. "These are the best of
the best in the managed services industry as defined by Channel Futures' extensive research. The MSP 501
companies are the most sought after by peers who want to understand today's best practices and by technology
suppliers who want to partner with these organizations," DeMarzo stated. "At their core, these are vendor and
platform neutral partners focused on doing what is right for their customers."About Magna5Magna5, a NewSpring
Holdings platform, providesmanaged IT services,cybersecurity,private and public cloud hosting,backup and
disaster recovery, and other advanced IT services to SMB, mid-market and enterprise customers, including leaders
in education, healthcare, government, financial services, manufacturing, and other industry segments.

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
                           Top MSP: Magna5 Ranked in 2024 Channel Futures MSP 501

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, PA, Magna5 has customers nationally. For more information,
visitwww.magna5.com.About Channel FuturesChannel Futures is a media and events destination for the
information technology and communications industry. We provide information, perspective, and connection for the
entire channel ecosystem, including solution providers (SPs), managed service providers (MSPs), managed
security service providers (MSSPs), cloud service providers (CSPs), value-added resellers (VARs) and distributors,
technology solutions brokerages, subagent and agents, as well as leading technology vendor partners and
communication providers.Channel Futures is where the world meets the channel; we are leading Channel Partners
forward. Our properties include awards programs such as the Channel Futures MSP 501, a list of the most
influential and fastest-growing providers of managed services in the technology industry; Channel Partners events,
which delivers unparalleled in-person events includingChannel Partners Conference & ExpoandMSP Summit.More
information is available atchannelfutures.com.Channel Futures is part ofInforma Tech, a leading provider of market
insight and market access to the global business technology community. Through in-depth expertise and an
engaged audience community, Informa Tech helps business professionals make better technology decisions and
marketers reach the most powerful tech buyers and influencers in the world. Across its portfolio of over 100+
trusted brands, Informa Tech has over 1000 industry experts, including over 400 research analysts and consultants
in global research group Omdia, and a monthly audience reach of over 125 million. Informa Tech is a division of
FTSE 100 company Informa plc. View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-
releases/top-msp-magna5-ranked-in-2024-channel-futures-msp-501-302179300.htmlSOURCE Magna5


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
