

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 8
          New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored
                   Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network Airings s....




  New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562
    and 563 as Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX
  Business Network; Airings start on Bloomberg TV on Saturday, March 16,
    2024, at 6:30 PM ET, followed by the FOX Business Network show on
                   Monday, March 18, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                               March 15, 2024 Friday 6:43 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; CALENDAR OF EVENTS
Length: 5053 words

Body


NEW YORK, March 15, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- New to The Street, an FMW Media business show
production, will air its corporate interviews, episodes 562 and 563, as Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV
and FOX Business Network.

Bloomberg TV airs Episode 562 as a sponsored programming Saturday, March 16, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET, featuring
the following five (5) Corporate Guests:

1). Fire Suppression Solutions - General Enterprise Ventures, Inc.'s (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) wholly owned
subsidiary Mighty Fire Breaker, LLC.'s (MFB) interview with Steve Conboy, Inventor/ Chief Technology Officer.

2). Augment Reality (AR) Technology Platform - Rokid's interview with Misa Zhu, Chief Executive Officer.

3). "Game Changers" segment interview with Iagon's (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG) Dr. Navjit Dhaliwal, CEO.

4). "Game Changers" segment interview with Greene Concepts, Inc.'s (OTCMarkets: INKW) ($INKW) Lenny
Greene, CEO and President.

5). "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO,
Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®).

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 8
         New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored
                  Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network Airings s....

FOX Business Network airs Episode 563 as a sponsored programming Monday, March 18, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT,
featuring the following five (5) Corporate Guests:

1). "Game Changers" segment interview with Fetch.ai's (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET) Humayun Sheikh, CEO.

2). "Game Changers" segment interview with Iagon's (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG) Dr. Navjit Dhaliwal, CEO.

3). "Game Changers" segment interview The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) interview
with Tony Raynor, CEO and Founder.

4). Gold/Silver Mining – Lahontan Gold Corp.'s (OTCQB: LGCXF) (TSXV: LG) ($LGCXF) interview with Kimberly
Ann, Founder, CEO, President, and Director.

5). "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO,
Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®).

New to The Street airs TV Host Jane King's interview with Steve Conboy, Inventor and Chief Technology Officer of
General Enterprise Ventures, Inc. (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) and its wholly owned subsidiary, Mighty Fire Breaker,
LLC. (MFB). Recognized as a leading provider of environmentally safe and sustainable solutions, Mighty Fire
Breaker, LLC products can provide firefighters with a proactive wildfire defense plan. Its Citrotech MFB
31 Technology (Citrotech) is a fire prevention spray product that can treat lumber and vegetation, making them non-
combustible. Using Citrotech with GPS tracking, mapping, and recording technology, firefighters have a reliable
solution when confronted with fires. Current products in the marketplace are toxic, killing wildlife and fish when
applied to suppress wildfires. After twelve years of development, Steve explained that he had looked at the EPA list
of food-friendly chemicals and had worked tirelessly to find a fire suppression product that would work effectively
and be environmentally sound. Management has approached many Government agencies and municipal fire
departments to adopt the new advanced fire suppression technology. The San Diego California Fire and Rescue
has recently started using MFB's product for fire suppression needs. In a proactive method, San Diego fire
departments will spray emergency road routes with Citrotech to ensure surrounding woods and fields cannot catch
fire. Unfortunately, emergency routes become fire-compromised, with many victims occurring when leaving fire
areas. Steve believes many more fire departments and other agencies will adopt the product as many will see how
well the product works as a non-toxic and non-hazardous spray inhibitor. The on-screen QR code is available
during the shows; download or visit Mighty Fire Breaker, LLC. (MFB) & General Enterprise Ventures, Inc.
(OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) - https://mightyfirebreaker.com/index.html and https://generalenterpriseventures.com/.
The interview will air as a sponsored program on Bloomberg TV, episode 562, on Saturday, March 16, 2024, at
6:30 PM ET.

Rokid's Chief Executive Officer, Misa Zhu, talks with New to The Street's TV Host, Jane King, about the Company's
augmented reality (AR) technology platform, Max Pro Smart glasses, and other AR product offerings. Using Optical
See Through (OST) technology, Rokid has developed a robust AR-based product ecosystem. The Rokid's Max Pro
Glasses are lightweight, only 76 grams, have excellent pixel resolution and resemble traditional eyewear in
appearance and experience. Max Pro glasses boast spatial interaction AR capabilities and enable end-users to
enact gestures and auditory interactions, catering to mobile office scenarios with additional features like multi-
screen displays and virtual keyboards. Rokid's AR Studio, comprising Max Pro glasses, Station Pro, and AR Joy.
Many industry developers are using the Rokid spatial computing platform for AR applications. One of Japan's larger
telecom providers uses the AR platform to create new customer user experiences. Business enterprises and
personal developers continue to utilize Rokid's ecosystem, a distinguished AR landscape, a different and unique
experience beyond Apple's Vison Pro virtual immersion. Misa shares Rokid's future and a commitment to advancing
its ecosystem with continuing investments in content creation tools and developer support initiatives. Rokid's
industry success comes from its comprehensive technical groundwork, seamless integration with various use
cases, and robust AR ecosystem. Rokid holds 30% of the global market in the AR spatial computer industry. The
on-screen QR code is available during the shows; download or visit Rokid - https://global.rokid.com/. The interview
will air as a sponsored program on Bloomberg TV, episode 562, on Saturday, March 16, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET.

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 8
         New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored
                  Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network Airings s....

New to The Street airs its "Game Changers" segment with TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry, who talks
with Dr. Navjit Dhaliwal ("Nav"), CEO of Iagon (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG). As "Game Changers" in the decentralized
cloud storage business, Iagon gives end-users complete data control. Clients control the use of their data and are
no longer given access to large "Big Tech" platforms without consent or fees. Nav likens Iagon to Airbnb for data
storage, where the client can determine where they would like data stored, options through numerous data nodes
worldwide. Decentralized and centralized data are two completely different ways of data management. Nav gives
an analogy: data lakes, whereas centralized data has limited cybersecurity features, and data breaches often occur,
such as data theft. Decentralized data lakes are like frozen lakes, with solid encryption features placed on a
blockchain, which only gives end-users access to data. Iagon's decentralized data ecosystem provides unbridled
security features not found on open BIG TECH platforms. Nav talks about the Company's recent achievements and
ongoing developments. Currently, Iagon has about 300 storage nodes globally. Nav explains the Company's
relationship with Equinix Metal, one of the world's largest digital infrastructure companies, with over 220 data
centers spread across the globe. Equinix Metal is a bare metal service provider that provides automated physical
infrastructure at software speed on the cloud. Equinix Metal and Iagon are collaborating in growing, maturing, and
showing the importance of digital decentralized storage solutions. As "Game Changers" in the data storage
industry, IAGON's blockchain ecosystem continues to grow with unique product offerings while ensuring complete
data protection, integrity, and efficiency. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit
Iagon - https://iagon.com/. The interview will air as a sponsored program on Bloomberg TV, episode 562, on
Saturday, March 16, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET, and on the FOX Business Network, episode 563, on Monday, March 18,
2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

New to The Street's "Game Changers" segment interview is with Lenny Greene, CEO and President of Greene
Concepts, Inc. (OTCMarkets: INKW). TV Host Ana Berry talks with Lenny about the Company's "Game Changers"
products in the bottled water and health beverage industry. "BeWater™" is the Company branded bottled water
product, a premium artesian aquifer water that continues gaining nationwide consumer demand. Each bottle of
"BeWater™" has the product slogan: "Now is The Time to Refresh Mind, Body, and Spirt." The label inspires
consumers to "Be" kind, happy, courageous, helpful, and other positive words. Many drinkers have shared and
provided rave reviews about "Be Water," giving them immediate hydration and improving health conditions. INKW's
"Happy Mellow" is a CBD and vitamin-infused beverage designed to support healthy immunity while boosting
energy and hydration. All of INKW's beverage formulations are to enhance health and wellness. The Company's
manufacturing facility in Marion, North Carolina, sits at the foothill of the Pisgah National Forest of the Appalachian
Mountains. The area receives rain around five (5) days a week, refilling the naturally occurring aquifer. "Be Water"
is a direct aquifer-to-consumer product made in the USA, available in packs of 6, 24, and gallon sizes. The success
of Management's sales and market has made "Be Water" available at numerous online and retail locations,
including Walmart, Amazon and Whole Foods, Camping World, and other recognized outlets. Consumers can buy
24 and 6-packs and gallon sizes. Lenny explains that the Company is ready on demand to respond to natural and
man-made disasters and has provided truckloads of donated bottled water for many who have fallen victim to tragic
events. Over the next few years, the Company plans to expand its 60,000 sq. foot facility to meet its growing
consumer demands. The Company's stock trades on the OTC Markets under the symbol INKW and has a strong
shareholder value proposition. Greene Concepts, Inc.’s "BeWater™" water and "Happy Mellow" health beverages,
a unique product line are “Game Changers” in the multi-billion-dollar health and wellness beverage marketplace.
The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit Greene Concepts, Inc. (OTCMarkets:
INKW) - https://greeneconcepts.com/. The interview will air as a sponsored program on Bloomberg TV, episode
562, on Saturday, March 16, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET.

Internationally acclaimed internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO, Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE:
SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®) and New to The Street TV Host / Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry present the
"Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – The Weekly Hack" segment. Ana and Alain discuss the recent hacking and data
theft from a large national eye center, American Vision Partners. Hackers stole over 2.35 million eye patents'
medical records and other personal data. Alain explains that hackers look for the most vulnerable, weakest security
point within an organization's IT platform. 91% of hacks come from emails, an easy way for hackers to commit
cybersecurity breaches. It could have happened from a patient's email account or within the medical organizations'

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 8
         New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored
                  Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network Airings s....

email accounts. Sekur offers encrypted products to help prevent privacy compromises. With SekurVPN, SekurMail,
and SekurMessenger subscription services, Sekur subscribers obtain several security and privacy features from
the products. Its SekurVPN was developed in-house and hosted on the Company's privately owned and controlled
servers in Switzerland. End-users always appear in Switzerland, masking a subscriber's internet footprint. IP
addresses are private under Swiss privacy laws. Any data mining or reselling of information is a significant violation
in Switzerland, which has the strictest privacy law in the world. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. owns and controls its Swiss
base servers, never sells data, never mines data, never asks for phone numbers, never uses 3rd party providers,
and never tracks internet traffic. The Company offers PROMO CODE: PRIVACY, which gives 15% savings toward
monthly and yearly subscriptions to any of its services, available for five years. Viewers, please tune in next time for
the newest cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security– Weekly Hack" segment. The on-screen QR
code is available during the shows to download more info or visit Sekur Private Data, Ltd. –
https://sekurprivatedata.com/, http:/sekur.com/, and https://sekur.com/en/vpn. Privacy has arrived! The interview will
air as a sponsored program on Bloomberg TV, episode 562, on Saturday, March 16, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET.

Fetch.ai's (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET) CEO, Humayun Sheikh, interview is on New to The Street's "Game Changers"
segment with TV Host Ana Berry. Humayun gives a corporate progress update on its AI ecosystem and the tools
available for developers. Over 25000+ have signed up for access to the platform. Fetch.ai makes AI tools available
to many who can develop and deploy AI-based apps anytime, anywhere, and on an operational scale. As an easy-
to-use Fetch AI ecosystem, developers can create and deploy AI-based apps promptly and at an affordable price.
Humayun believes that large Big Tech entities should not control AI but be mainstream. He, however, believes that
governmental regulation should be in place to make sure AI is good for humankind. With geopolitical tension and a
forthcoming US election, AI-generated content needs validation for authenticity and truthfulness. As an open
platform for the new AI economy, Fetch.ai is the first AI Agent platform that allows developers to create 100,000
apps. Fetch AI agents can connect, search, and transact from dynamic interactions, promoting social well-being
and economic growth. Building, deploying, and monetizing an open AI ecosystem, Fetch.ai technology platforms
are "Game Changers" for the AI technology industry. The on-screen QR code is available during the show;
download or visit Fetch AI - www.fetch.ai. The interview will air on the FOX Business Network, episode 563, on
Monday, March 18, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

New to The Street airs another "Game Changers" segment with TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry, who
talks with The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) Tony Raynor, CEO and Founder, SGTM
is revolutionizing sustainability using cutting-edge technology, converting waste into viable products. Wood, organic,
and animal waste are raw materials that SGTM recycles into usable and valuable nutrients for the agricultural
markets. Demand for recycled organic products is rising globally as the world's population sees the increasing
importance and impact of recycling and sustainability needs. Tony talks about the 250 million acres in the USA
allocated for raising cattle, pigs, and chickens. SGTM has numerous contracts to remove animal waste from farms
and ranches to create recycled organic products. The Company also works with landfills nationwide, removing
wood and other organic waste materials for recycling. Using SGTM's technology and manufacturing capabilities, its
HumiSoil product, a mix of humus and a catalyst, restores soil's organic nutrients and creates water hydration.
SGTM’s sustainable products are “Game Changers,” dramatically improving the planet. Tony welcomes viewers to
join SGTM's movement; opt-in https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/ and go to its YouTube channel, which
has many informative videos about the Company and its sustainable initiatives. The on-screen QR code is available
during the shows: The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. - https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/. The interview
will air on the FOX Business Network, episode 563, on Monday, March 18, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

Kimberly Ann, Founder, CEO, President, and Director of Lahontan Gold Corp. (OTCQB: LGCXF) (TSXV: LG)
($LGCXF), is with New to The Street's TV Host Jane King, talking about the Company from the Nasdaq MarketSite
Studio. Lahontan Gold Corp. is a Canadian junior exploration gold and silver mining entity with business operations
on four top-tier mining claims in Mineral County, Nevada. Kimberly provides an operation update on its flagship
property, Santa Fe. This property produced gold/silver in 1988-1991 when Gold was at $370 oz. Management's
goal is to get Santa Fe back into production. In June 2024, the Company expects to submit its "Plan of Operations"
permit on the property to the US Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Hopefully, the BLM approves the plan within

                                                                                                  Page 5 of 8
         New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored
                  Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network Airings s....

four to six months. Additionally, Kimberly informs views that the Company will file its Preliminary Economic
Assessment (PEA) report, providing economic information, mine life analysis, mineral grades, recovery
percentages, and other vital comparisons. On a fast-track objective, the Company works diligently to get the San Fe
property into production. The Company's West Santa Fe mining property, 15km from Santa Fe, has shown some
exciting mineralization from rock chip analysis. Management will be actively working on geological evidence proving
the viability of West San Fe. Management expects Santa Fe and West Santa Fee to merge into a larger mining plan
of operation eventually. On a fast-track objective, the Company works diligently to get the San Fe property into
production. With gold and silver prices rising from inflationary and geopolitical fears, LGCXF sees a robust future
ahead. Lahontan Gold has a Canadian 43-101 report on its Santa Fe operations. The on-screen QR code is
available during the show to download more info or visit Lahontan Gold Corp. - https://lahontangoldcorp.com/. The
interview will air on the FOX Business Network, episode 563, on Monday, March 18, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

New to The Street TV airs its "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security Segment – The Weekly Hack" with internationally
acclaimed internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO of Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR)
(FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF). TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry and Alain discuss Meta's lawsuit against
NSO Group, an Israeli company. A US Federal judge ordered NSO to hand over source code on its Pegasus
spyware product. Big Tech messenger apps all have open platforms; shared data is typical with free apps. End-
users on these platforms have installed malware on their devices, and data and other sensitive information are
stolen or used without authorization. Hackers impersonate someone you know, intending to get into your electronic
devices. They send a text message, and you open a link, and the cybersecurity problem starts. All these BIG TECH
messenger apps ask for phone numbers, which allows your data to become compromised. SekurMessenger, an
encrypted app, never asks for phone numbers as part of the account set-up process. Subscribers have an
encrypted secure messaging app with many unique features that eliminates outside interferences typically
associated with open-tech platform apps. Additionally, Sekur now offers a new product, SekurRelay, a business
enterprise software solution that allows management and other C-suite executives a private and secure email
communication platform. Any data mining or reselling of information is a significant violation in Switzerland, which
has the strictest privacy law in the world. Alain again informs viewers that Sekur Private Data, Ltd. wholly owns and
controls its Swiss base servers, never sells data, never mines data, never asks for phone numbers, never uses 3rd
party providers, and never tracks internet traffic. The Company is offering PROMO CODE: PRIVACY that gives
15% savings toward monthly and yearly subscriptions to any of its services, good for five years. Viewers, please
tune in next time for the newest cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security– Weekly Hack"
segment. The on-screen QR code is available during the shows to download more info or visit Sekur Private Data,
Ltd. – https://sekurprivatedata.com/ and http:/sekur.com/ Privacy has arrived! The interview will air on the FOX
Business Network, episode 563, on Monday, March 18, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

About General Enterprise Ventures, Inc. (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI):

General Enterprise Ventures, Inc. (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) is a fully integrated technology company providing
mergers and acquisitions of new and available technology. Management incubates first-to-market products through
its services and helps existing companies accelerate their product development within all regulatory requirements -
https://generalenterpriseventures.com/.

About Mighty Fire Breaker, LLC. (MFB):

Mighty Fire Breaker LLC (MFB) is a leading provider of environmentally safe and sustainable solutions for proactive
wildfire defense. Our portfolio includes EPA Safer Choice Certified Citrotech® Wildfire Inhibitors, mobile and
stationary spray application systems, and GPS-tracking, recording, and mapping technologies that support
intelligent, proactive wildfire defense management practices - https://mightyfirebreaker.com/index.html.

About Rokid:

Rokid, a leading innovator in the field, is at the forefront of this exciting development, pushing the boundaries of
what's possible with smart glasses display technology. The Company's ecosystem is the fascinating world of AI

                                                                                                  Page 6 of 8
         New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored
                  Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network Airings s....

smart glasses, exploring their inner workings, diverse applications, and potential impact on various aspects of our
lives. Renowned for its innovative smart glasses display technology, offering models like the Rokid Max and Rokid
Air that cater to both consumers and enterprise users. These glasses boast high-resolution displays, powerful AI
processors, and a wide range of features like voice control, translation, and AR overlays - https://global.rokid.com/.

About Iagon (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG):

Iagon was founded in 2017 in Hamar, Norway because people need to be in control of their data. The idea started
as an attempt to solve significant issues related to how healthcare data is stored, with modern solutions severely
lacking transparency for individuals at a national and international level. The protocol will allow storage providers to
earn rewards by trading their excess storage to resource consumers on a marketplace at a transparent price while
ensuring data privacy, security, and accessibility. Its token-based economy is based on computer, server, and data
center owners who join the storage and processing power grids. In return for sharing the capabilities of their
machine, they will be granted Iagon tokens that can be traded back to fat money, while any party who wishes to
utilize their capabilities will purchase tokens to distribute them to the parties that provide their services to the
blockchain grid - https://iagon.com/.

About Greene Concepts, Inc. (OTCMarkets: INKW) ($INKW):

Greene Concepts, Inc. (OTCMarkets: INKW) ($INKW): is a publicly traded company whose purpose is to provide
the world with high-quality, healthy, and enhanced healthy choices that meet the nutritional needs of its consumers
while refreshing their mind, body, and spirit. The Company's flagship product, "BeWater™," is a premium artesian
bottled water that supports total body health and wellness. Greene Concepts' beverage and bottling plant is in
Marion, North Carolina, and their water is ethically sourced from spring and artesian wells that are fed from a
natural aquifer located deep beneath the Blue Ridge Mountains. Greene Concepts continues to develop and market
premium beverage brands designed to enhance the daily lives of consumers - https://greeneconcepts.com/.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About fetch.ai (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET)

Fetch.ai (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET) is an AI (artificial intelligence) Company that builds tools and infrastructure to
enable a decentralized digital economy. As an open AI decentralized machine learning platform, its distributed
ledger ecosystem allows secure sharing, connection, and transactions based on any data globally. Fetch.ai's open-
source technology network allows any user to connect to the network, access the power of AI on a world-scale
secure dataset, and carry out complex coordination tasks in the modern economy https://fetch.ai/.

About The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM):

The Sustainable Green Team (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) is a leading Company in climate reversing technologies,
a provider of sustainable solutions to improve environmental health and promote sustainable practices, delivering
eco-friendly products and services. Through its partnership with VRM Biologik Group, SGTM aims to make
significant contributions to global sustainability; learn more by visiting the Company website,
https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/,      SGTM's YouTube       Channel    and     corporate     videos     -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJ7Dp9Coi88&t=1s & https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kycfy-UvQsU.

About Lahontan Gold Corp. (OTCQB: LGCXF) (TSXV: LG) ($LGCXF):

                                                                                                  Page 7 of 8
         New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored
                  Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network Airings s....

Lahontan Gold Corp. (OTCQB: LGCXF) (TSXV: LG) ($LGCXF): is a Canadian mineral exploration company that
holds, through its US subsidiaries, three top-tier gold and silver exploration properties in the Walker Lane of mining-
friendly Nevada. Lahontan's flagship property, the 19 km2 Santa Fe Mine, had past production of 345,000 ounces
of Gold and 711,000 ounces of silver between 1988 and 1995 from open pit mines utilizing heap-leach processing
(Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology, 1995). The Santa Fe Mine has an Indicated Mineral Resource of 1,112,000
oz Au Eq (grading 1.14 g/t Au Eq) and an Inferred Mineral Resource of 544,000 oz Au Eq (grading 1.00 g/t Au Eq),
all pit-constrained (Au Eq is inclusive of recovery, please see Santa Fe Project Technical Report*). The Company
will continue aggressively exploring Santa Fe during 2023 and begin evaluating development scenarios to bring the
Santa Fe Mine back into production. Anthony Gesualdo, CPG., Consulting Geologist to Lahontan Gold Corp., is the
Qualified Person for the Company and approved the technical content reports - https://lahontangoldcorp.com/ (*
Please see the Santa Fe Project Technical Report, Authors: Trevor Rabb and Darcy Baker, P. Geos. Effective
Date: December 7, 2022, Report Date: March 2, 2023 - The Technical Report is available on the Company's
website and SEDAR.).

About New to The Street:

New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running US and International
sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street." Since 2009, New to
The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S. television networks. The Nielsen-rated
and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US and international markets.
FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg and the FOX Business Network as sponsored
programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form paid
programming - https://newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all filings of the Companies
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
Management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to Management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT:

FMW Media Contact: Monica Brennan monica@NewtoTheStreet.com 1-917-330-2564

"New to The Street" Business Development Office 1-516-696-5900 Support@NewToTheStreet.com

A         photo        accompanying        this       announcement        is       available                          at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/ff36017d-1a4c-47c6-a009-09ec4409305d

                                                                                                 Page 8 of 8
        New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored
                 Programming on Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network Airings s....

New to The Street Airs Five Corporate Interviews, Televised Episodes 562 and 563 as Sponsored Programming on
Bloomberg TV and The FOX Business Network

Shows 562/563: 1). General Enterprise Ventures, Inc. (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) and wholly owned subsidiary
Mighty Fire Breaker, LLC. (MFB) 2). Rokid 3). Iagon (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG) 4). Greene Concepts, Inc.
(OTCMarkets: INKW) ($INKW) 5). Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®)
6). Fetch.ai (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET) 7).The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) 8). Lahontan
Gold Corp. (OTCQB: LGCXF) (TSXV: LG) ($LGCXF) - www.newtothestreet.com


Load-Date: March 15, 2024


  
