

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 3
   Looq AI Launches AI -Enabled Digital Twin Platform at Distributech 2024; Secures $2.6M from Top VCs Novel
                           Technology Enables True Asset Intelligence of Critical....




   Looq AI Launches AI-Enabled Digital Twin Platform at Distributech 2024;
     Secures $2.6M from Top VCs; Novel Technology Enables True Asset
            Intelligence of Critical Utilities Infrastructure at Scale
                                                     Business Wire
                                      February 27, 2024 Tuesday 5:40 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1231 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO & SAN DIEGO & ORLANDO, Fla.

Body


Looq AI announced the launch of its groundbreaking AI-enabled digital twin technology, the Looq platform, a one-
stop solution for surveyors, engineers, contractors, and asset owners to digitally map the physical world
infrastructure in minutes, with survey-grade accuracy, enabling them to build and uphold a safer, more sustainable,
and electrified future. Powered by a novel and fundamental computer vision and AI technology, the Looq platform
now enables the frequent, and large-scale digitization of critical infrastructure for true asset intelligence. Established
in 2021, Looq AI is a hardware enabled AI company dedicated to advancing critical infrastructure digitization and
diagnosis. Looq's founders and scientists have developed a new camera AI technology that makes survey-grade
3D capture cost-effective at scale with AI-enabled workflows, simplifying the process of generating geometrically
precise, geo-referenced, and intelligent digital twins.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.                View       the       full      release       here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240227335776/en/

Distribution pole capture with the Looq Q camera, the imaging component of the Looq platform. High data quality
ensures that a single Looq survey can serve to update asset management databases, to complete complex
engineering tasks such as pole-load analysis and phase tracing, and to create a trustworthy, survey-certifiable,
record for as-built. Image courtesy of Looq AI.

The utility sector faces unprecedented pressure to maintain, expand and improve the electric grid. Across
inspection of existing assets, the development of new structures, and the repair of disaster struck areas,
organizations have an urgent need for timely and accurate information to power key decision making and
operations. These design, construction, and operation efforts constitute large and complex projects requiring careful
multi-agency planning to ensure safe, timely, and budget friendly execution. A single mistake can lead to hazardous
conditions and cost millions of dollars.

To resolve these challenges, organizations need intelligent, collaborative, and accurate digital twins; however, the
broad adoption of digital twins and the ecosystem supporting them has been hampered by the high cost, and the
time and resource burden needed to capture large-scale datasets on a time-frequency needed for effective decision

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
  Looq AI Launches AI -Enabled Digital Twin Platform at Distributech 2024; Secures $2.6M from Top VCs Novel
                          Technology Enables True Asset Intelligence of Critical....

making. "We have developed a fundamentally different way of creating these accurate digital twins leveraging
cameras instead of lasers," said Dominique Meyer, PhD., CEO at Looq AI. "Our cameras offer over 100x higher
spatial sampling rates compared to top-of-the-line laser systems, enabling our customers to capture the data they
need within minutes, and at a scale that they previously could not do."

"The use of this technology is a game-changer for us. It gives us the opportunity to capture a large amount of
survey-grade data without drones or hours and hours of boots-on-the-ground labor," said Amanda Jones, PLS,
Owner at AJS.

The Looq platform is a deep technology stack assembling an end-to-end solution for digitizing the built world.
Looq's proprietary "Q" camera system allows data to be captured in the field within minutes, which gets processed
with Looq's AI based image-to-model software in the cloud to create geo-referenced 3D digital twins and
topographic maps with survey-grade accuracy and AI semantic information.

"I haven't been this excited about a new 3D capture technology in a long time," said Kevin Grover, Advanced
Technology Leader, McElhanney Ltd. "The speed and quality of the survey data from Looq is paramount to other
3D technology on the market today. Looq is going to be disrupting the industry, and we are excited to be an early
partner of theirs at McElhanney in Canada."

Using the Looq platform, project teams can now interact with the digital twin models and AI generated information
to complete a multitude of engineering, surveying, analysis, and coordination tasks. This gives them bottom-line
operational savings and importantly, makes it feasible to get access to the complete information needed for critical
decision making.

"The Looq platform has become an indispensable engineering tool in our fielding tool kit. Their unique hardware
and groundbreaking back-end processing has enabled our design teams to capture highly detailed and accurate
field conditions in the absence of existing survey data," said Blake Darling, PE, PMP, Director of Engineering
Underground Programs, Aquawolf. "During all phases of design, the platform has enabled us to fill holes in our
existing survey basemaps quickly and reliably with rich data which keeps design moving forward while we wait for
traditional land survey. Looq has been a key component of helping Aquawolf maintain its reputation for agility and
high-quality engineering and design in the underground utility industry."

Fundraise

Looq AI has successfully secured $2.6M in a preferred series seed funding led by BootstrapLabs, a venture capital
firm focused on applied artificial intelligence, and with the participation of Longley Capital and Spatial Capital. In
conjunction with its initial pre-seed round, Looq AI has raised a total of $3.75M to date.

"We are grateful to be backed by some of the world's most forward-looking investors in the applied AI space,
exactly where Looq is focused," said Meyer. "The addition of BootstrapLabs, Longley Capital and Spatial Capital, to
our investor base will accelerate Looq AI to the next stage of growth."

"Looq's product is remarkable, as it not only combines the latest advances in hardware, AI, and computing
technologies, but it also accelerates the very digitalization of our world, generating troves of unique data upon which
the company will build its AI moat," said Benjamin Levy, Co-Founder and General Partner of BootstrapLabs.

Image: Looq AI-Capture-Pole.JPG

Caption: Distribution pole capture with the Looq Q camera, the imaging component of the Looq platform. High data
quality ensures that a single Looq survey can serve to update asset management databases, to complete complex
engineering tasks such as pole-load analysis and phase tracing, and to create a trustworthy, survey-certifiable,
record for as-built. Image courtesy of Looq AI .

About Looq AI

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
  Looq AI Launches AI -Enabled Digital Twin Platform at Distributech 2024; Secures $2.6M from Top VCs Novel
                          Technology Enables True Asset Intelligence of Critical....

Established in 2021, Looq AI is a survey technology platform company dedicated to advancing critical infrastructure
digitization and analysis. The Looq platform enables the rapid and scalable 3D capture of survey-grade information
across engineering and utility projects for decision making and operational efficiency. For more information, visit
www.looq.ai .

About BootstrapLabs

Established in 2008, BootstrapLabs is a leading AI-focused Venture Capital firm based in San Francisco.
BootstrapLabs was among the first U.S. venture capital firms to invest exclusively in AI-first startups 8+ years ago
and has since made over 70 investments in 30+ portfolio companies solving some of the most valuable problems in
verticals such as the Future of Work, Mobility, Health, Digital Infrastructure, Financial Infrastructure, Climate &
Energy, and National Security, among others. For more information, visit www.bootstraplabs.com .

If you would like more information about this topic, please email prnews@looq.ai

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240227335776/en/


CONTACT: Christine Byrne - Looq AI
+1 888-209-4958

prnews@looq.ai


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


Distribution pole capture with the Looq Q camera, the imaging component of the Looq platform. High data quality
ensures that a single Looq survey can serve to update asset management databases, to complete complex
engineering tasks such as pole-load analysis and phase tracing, and to create a trustworthy, survey-certifiable,
record for as-built. Image courtesy of Looq AI.


Load-Date: February 27, 2024


  
