

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 9
                                   Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024




                    Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              April 19, 2024 Friday 6:50 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 4055 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(TNSres) -- The U.S. Census Bureau issued the following tip sheet:

***

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

International Field Directors and Technologies Conference

Members of the U.S. Census Bureau are scheduled to present papers and participate in discussion sessions at the
57th Annual International Field Directors and Technologies Conference (April 21- 23). This conference is held
annually and provides a unique forum for government, academic institutions and other research agencies to
informally communicate with each other. Attendees include field directors, field technicians and survey managers.
(Event scheduled for April 21-23.)

National Advisory Committee 2024 Spring Meeting

The U.S. Census Bureau will host the National Advisory Committee Spring Meeting May 2. The committee will
address policy, research, and technical issues relating to a full range of Census Bureau programs and activities,
including the decennial census, demographic and economic statistical programs, field operations and information
technology. For more information visit National Advisory Committee Spring Meeting: May 2, 2024 (census.gov).

2030 Census Preparation

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024

Census Bureau to Announce Plans for 2026 Census Test

The Census Bureau is scheduled to hold the third in a series of webinars to share updates and lay the groundwork
for key components of the 2030 Census preparations. The upcoming webinar, scheduled for April 30 at 2 p.m. EDT,
will provide updates about the scope and enhancements that will be tested in the 2026 Census Test, including new
strategies to increase overall response and participation. The Census Bureau will pay special attention to the
inclusion of hard-to-count and historically undercounted populations. The webinar will also describe how the
Census Bureau plans to test features that were not used during the 2020 Census. The 2026 Census Test is one of
two major field tests the Census Bureau will hold leading up to the 2030 Census. (Scheduled for April 30.)

American Community Survey

2025 American Community Survey (ACS) and Puerto Rico Community Survey (PRCS) Federal Register Notice

The Census Bureau is inviting a final round of public feedback on the proposed content for the 2025 American
Community Survey (ACS) and Puerto Rico Community Survey (PRCS) through a Federal Register notice (FRN).
The FRN gives the public 30 days to provide comments. The public may submit comments through April 25. Once
comments are reviewed, the Census Bureau will submit the final content recommendations to the Office of
Management and Budget. As explained in a Director's Blog released in February, the proposed 2025 ACS and
PRCS content does not include any changes to the existing disability questions.

Demographic

Population Association of America

Members of the U.S. Census Bureau are scheduled to present papers and participate in discussions at the
Population Association of America conference April 17-20. The full program is available online.

The Population Association of America's annual meeting is the premier conference of demographers and social and
health scientists from the United States and abroad. Here demographers at all career stages are afforded the
opportunity to present their research in oral and poster sessions, hear others' findings and network with their peers.

New 2022 Congressional Election Voting Report

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new report, Voting and Registration in the Election of November 2022,
based on data from the 2022 Current Population Survey (CPS) Voting and Registration Supplement. The report
highlights patterns in voter turnout over time among the citizen voting-age population (CVAP) and explores
demographic groups over- and under-represented in the 2022 congressional elections compared to the CVAP as a
whole. (Tentatively scheduled for release April 23.)

Parental Mortality Brief

The U.S. Census Bureau will be releasing a new research brief on parental mortality based on the 2022 Survey of
Income and Program Participation (SIPP). This report presents national level statistics on the percentage of people
who lost a mother or father and how these estimates varied by age and race/ethnicity. (Tentatively scheduled for
release in April.)

Census Bureau Releases New Estimates on America's Families and Living Arrangements

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a report on the data from the annual release of America's Families and Living
Arrangements. This report provides a demographic profile of the households and living arrangements of those who
live in the U.S., and how these have changed over time. (Scheduled for release May 9.)

Current Population Survey Data Tables for Age, Sex, Race and Hispanic Origin, and the Older and Foreign-Born
Populations

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 9
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new data tables from the 2023 Current Population Survey Annual Social and
Economic Supplement. These tables provide information on marital status, educational attainment, employment
status, occupation, earnings, and other social and economic statistics by age, sex and Hispanic origin, and for the
Asian alone, Asian alone-or-in-combination, black alone, black alone-or-in-combination, older and foreign-born
populations. (Scheduled for release May 14.)

Total Population Estimates for Incorporated Places and Minor Civil Divisions and Housing Unit Estimates for the
Nation, States and Counties

Internet tables and detailed downloadable files will show annual population estimates for cities and towns, to
include incorporated places and minor civil divisions, along with nation, state and county housing unit estimates as
of July 1, 2023. (Scheduled for embargo starting May 14; for public release May 16.)

Household Pulse Survey

The experimental (Household Pulse Survey HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4.1 topics include employment status, spending, food security, housing, health, mental health, natural
disasters, inflation and spending, vaccine receipt, COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, disability, income, social
connection, child care arrangements, and a section on participation with the arts. Data collection for phase 4.1
began April 2, with data dissemination, including detailed data tables, an interactive data tool, and public-use files,
on a monthly basis. (Scheduled for release May 16, June 13, July 11, and August 8.)

Economic

Annual Survey of School System Finances

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new 2022 Annual Survey of School System Finances tables. The tables will
provide new data on current spending per pupil as well as data on revenues, expenditures, debt and assets for
public elementary-secondary education (pre-K through 12th grade) in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
(Scheduled for release April 25.)

Census Bureau to Release Public Use File Microdata on Nation's Vehicle Inventory and Use

The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled release the Vehicle Inventory and Use Survey (VIUS) 2021 Public Use File
on the Microdata Access Tool (MDAT) website. The VIUS is a joint partnership with the U.S. Department of
Transportation, Bureau of Transportation Statistics and Federal Highway Administration; the U.S. Department of
Energy; and the U.S. Census Bureau. (Scheduled for release April 30.)

2022 Individual State Descriptions report

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2022 Individual State Descriptions (ISD) report. The report summarizes
legal organization of U.S. state and local governments for each state and the District of Columbia. Descriptions
cover local government types according to the Census Bureau's classification structure, which are county,
municipal, township, school district, and special district governments.

Related products include 2022 Census of Governments - Organization data (released in 2023) which provide official
counts of in-scope U.S. governments by type, state, population-size groups, function and school systems.
(Scheduled for release April 30.)

Justice Outcomes Explorer

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new experimental data product, the Justice Outcomes Explorer (JOE), that
measures the economic and health outcomes of people who were charged with criminal offenses, released from
prison or began probation or parole sentences. The outcomes measured include employment, earnings,
government program participation, and mortality. JOE is a collaboration between the Census Bureau and University

                                                                                                       Page 4 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024

of Michigan that highlights the Criminal Justice Administrative Records System (CJARS) to better understand how
people involved in the justice system reintegrate into society. (Scheduled for release May 1.)

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey - COVID

The U.S. Census Bureau will release data from the Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES) covering data year
2022. Tables will show the impact on budgeted capital expenditures and the use of capital expenditures to fund
investments related to social distancing and safety for companies with employees in the United States during the
COVID-19 pandemic. All data will be available at the national level by 2-digit NAICS industry. (Scheduled for
release May 1.)

2024 Local Employment Dynamics Partnership Virtual Workshop -- May 14-16

Please join us for our 2024 Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership Virtual Workshop. This year's theme is,
"Multidimensional Perspectives of the Labor Market." We will be highlighting the work of our state Labor Market
Information (LMI) partners and other data users through plenary sessions. This year's keynote speaker will be Julia
Pollak, chief economist at ZipRecruiter.

Further details and an agenda will be posted on our event's page. Information on previous workshops can also be
found at https://lehd.ces.census.gov/learning/.

2023 Survey of Public Employment and Payroll

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new summary report and data tables for the 2023 Annual Survey of Public
Employment and Payroll. These statistics provide a comprehensive look at the employment of the nation's state
and local governments and gross monthly payroll for March 2023. Federal, state and local governments, and
education and research organizations use public employment and payroll data for comparative studies and
activities such as development of the government component of the gross domestic product (GDP). Along with the
new 2023 data, revised tables for 2021 and 2022 will be released. You can learn more about these updates online
at www.census.gov/programs-surveys/apes/data/datasetstables.html. (Scheduled for release May 16.)

"Has the Gender Gap Improved Since Covid-19?"

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute, welcomes
Maggie Smith, as she presents, "Has the Gender Gap Improved Since Covid-19?" This study examines women's
progress in the labor market utilizing the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) Quarterly Workforce
Indicators (QWI) data set. In this presentation Smith looks at wage growth to see how women have fared compared
to men specifically in North Carolina. (Scheduled for release May 22.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. BTOS
experimental data products are representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding farms.
The data allow greater insight into the state of the economy by providing continuous, timely information for key
economic measures. Data are released biweekly and are available by sector, state, employment size, and the 25
most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Additional details on artificial intelligence use and types used were
added for one cycle and released March 28, 2024. Because of the change in sample composition, BTOS data from
before September 11, 2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional and national levels and by industry sector

                                                                                                    Page 5 of 9
                                 Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024

at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released May 9 and will include April 2024 data. Business
Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (census.gov).

________________________________________

Recently Released

(Released since April 5, 2024)

2024 American Association of Geographers (AAG) Annual Meeting -- April 16

Researchers from the U.S. Census Bureau participated in the 2024 American Association of Geographers (AAG)
Annual Meeting April 16. The AAG is a scientific and educational society founded in 1904 to contribute to the
advancement of geography. The annual meeting features presentations by geographers and those in related
professions on theory, methods and practice of the discipline.

Phase 2 Winners of First-of-Its-Kind Venture Fund on Supply Chain Data -- April 8

The U.S. Census Bureau announced the winners of the second phase of the StatVentures Supply Chain Challenge.
This challenge invited participants to propose new ways to provide more timely, granular and robust supply chain
data. During Phase 2, winning teams submitted implementation roadmaps explaining how their idea would work to
capture new or improved supply chain data on manufacturing, imports and exports, transportation and delivery of
goods, and other key components of global supply chains.

2030 Census Preparation

Initial Strategies for 2030 Census Preparations -- April 8

The Census Bureau released five strategy documents outlining how it plans to carry out the next decennial census.
The strategies cover the Census Bureau's approach for conducting a complete count, designing operations,
developing the IT solution, sourcing contracts and engaging with stakeholders for the 2030 Census.

2020 Census

Census Bureau to Release Estimates of State and County Undercounts and Overcounts for Young Children in the
2020 Census -- April 11

The U.S. Census Bureau released the Demographic Analysis estimates of state and county net coverage error for
children ages 0 to 4 in the 2020 Census. This is the first time the Census Bureau has released these experimental
Demographic Analysis estimates designed to help gauge the accuracy of the 2020 Census count of the nation's
youngest children.

American Community Survey

New Report on the Nation's Foreign-Born Population -- April 9

The U.S. Census Bureau released new data products highlighting select demographic and socioeconomic
characteristics of the nation's foreign-born population. The Foreign-Born Population 2022 report compares 2010
and 2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year estimates to provide insight into the changing composition of
the foreign-born population in the United States. The Highlights of the Foreign-Born Population data visualization
displays 2018-2022 ACS 5-year estimates about the foreign-born population at various levels of geography,
including national, state and county.

Demographic

Census Bureau Releases New U.S. Population Estimates by Age and Sex -- April 11

                                                                                                       Page 6 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024

The U.S. Census Bureau released a downloadable file containing estimates of the nation's resident population by
sex and single year of age as of July 1, 2023. In the coming months, the Census Bureau will release additional
population estimates for cities as well as population estimates by age, sex, race and Hispanic origin for the nation,
states, metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas, and counties.

Economic

Using Census Data: A Case Study & Data Tools Walk Through -- April 18

Join us for the Exploring Census Data webinar series on Using Census Data: A Case Study & Data Tools Walk
Through. In this session, Census Bureau subject matter experts will dive into different ways to use and access
census data through case studies with real-world applications including examples of how Census Bureau data is
used to make business decisions. The session includes a live demonstration on how to find key data and will offer
resources connected to the statistics. There will be an opportunity to engage with our experts through live chat and
the Q&A segment of the webinar. This webinar is part 1 of 6 in a series to help data users discover Census Bureau
data related to people, places and the economy.

"Mom and Pop Shops Lead Job Recovery from Economic Downturn after COVID-19" -- April 17

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership, in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute, welcomes Bryce
Hill as he presents, "Mom and Pop Shops Lead Job Recovery from Economic Downturn after COVID-19." The
Census Bureau's Quarterly Workforce Indicators (QWI) dataset indicates small businesses with fewer than 50
employees created the majority of new jobs in the state of Illinois. Despite obstacles from the pandemic and
government policies, Hill shares insights on how small businesses thrived in new jobs, employment and payroll.

Census Business Builder Version 5.5 -- April 10

The U.S. Census Bureau released version 5.5 of the Census Business Builder (CBB) tool. This update allows users
to report on the economic impact of FEMA declared disasters areas by NAICS code at ports of entry to the U.S.
CBB version 5.5 also includes a cartographic representation of supply chain data as well as enhancements to
reports and the latest data available. More information on Census Business Builder is available online.

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures for Robotic Equipment -- April 10

The Census Bureau released new Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES) estimates. ACES estimates by
business type add details to national-level estimates of investment in machinery and equipment. The estimates
reflect data defined by 2017 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) industries in which the robotic
investment was made.

Facts for Features

Asian-American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month: May 2024 -- March 26

This month-long observance of Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders started more than 25 years ago. We
celebrate their growing contributions to our nation with a host of demographic and economic statistical information
about the Asian and Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander populations.

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

* Dual Health Insurance Coverage Declining For Adults Age 65 and Over (April 18)

                                                                                                      Page 7 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024

* Exploring Undercount of Young Children in 2020 Census by County (April 11)

* Where Do Immigrants Live? (April 10)

* Bridge Collapse Could Affect Over a Million People in Baltimore Area (April 9)

Blogs

Improving Race/Ethnicity Data With Updated Federal Standards -- Written by: Robert L. Santos, Director, U.S.
Census Bureau -- April 8

On March 28, the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) published the results of its review of Statistical
Policy Directive No. 15 (SPD 15) and issued updated standards for collecting and reporting race and ethnicity data
across federal agencies, including the U.S. Census Bureau. These standards were last revised over a quarter
century ago. Given the evolution of our nation over the past two decades, this announcement is well received.

What Updates to OMB's Race/Ethnicity Standards Mean for the Census Bureau -- Written by: Rachel Marks, Chief,
Racial Statistics Branch, Population Division; Nicholas Jones, Director/Senior Advisor for Race/Ethnicity Research
& Outreach, Population Division; and Karen Battle, Division Chief, Population Division -- April 8

On March 28, 2024, the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) published the results of its review of
Statistical Policy Directive No. 15 (SPD 15) and issued updated standards for maintaining, collecting and presenting
race/ethnicity data across federal agencies. Among the biggest updates: directives to use a combined race/ethnicity
question; the addition of a new "Middle Eastern and North African" minimum reporting category; and a requirement
to collect detailed race/ethnicity responses.

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources -- When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management
webpage for demographic and economic data on impacted areas. Each disaster will include data from our key
emergency management tools: OnTheMap for Emergency Management, Community Resilience Estimates, Census
Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition, and other useful resources.

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community -- Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-
plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from
the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official information about America's people, businesses,
industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

* Atlanta

* Chicago

* Denver

* Los Angeles

* New York

* Philadelphia

* All Surveys

Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage.

                                                                                                      Page 8 of 9
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024

EDA (Economic Development Administration)-Census Poverty Status Viewer -- This interactive tool measures high
poverty areas and persistent poverty counties using data from the American Community Survey, SAIPE, and
decennial census.

International Database (IDB) -- Find demographic indicators, population pyramids, and source information for
countries and areas of the world with a population of 5,000 or more.

My Congressional District -- Access selected statistics about your Congressional district collected through the
American Community Survey (ACS) and County Business Patterns (CBP).

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities -- Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and
use Census Bureau statistics. These free sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate
Census Bureau databases and mapping tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national
level. Descriptions of upcoming sessions are available on our Census Academy webpage. Login details are
provided at least one week before a webinar.

* Interpreting Cohort Profiles of Lifecycle Earnings Volatility (Wednesday, April 24, 1-2 p.m. EDT)

* Race & Ethnicity Data on data.census.gov (Thursday, April 25, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Using CBP and NES to Make Informed Business Decisions (Thursday, April 25, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Nuevo Centro de Microdatos en Puerto Rico (Friday, April 26, 1:30-3:00 p.m. EDT)

* Estimados y Proyecciones de la Poblacion de Puerto Rico (Tuesday, April 30, 11:30-12:30 p.m. EDT)

* Comparing Race and Ethnicity Data from the ACS and the 2020 Census (Wednesday, May 8, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Live Schedule (HS) Commodity Classification (Wednesday, May 8, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Storytelling with Census Business Builder (Thursday, May 9, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Puerto Rico Data Resources (Wednesday, May 15, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Has the Gender Gap Improved Since Covid-19? (Wednesday, May 22, 1:30-2:45 p.m. EDT)

* Discovering Manufacturing Workforce Diversity (Thursday, May 23, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Exploring Census Data: Minority Businesses & Equitable Data (Thursday, May 30, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

Archived Training Resources -- Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library for previously recorded,
free training available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded webinars, tutorials and
other helpful materials.

***

Original text and links presented by source here: https://www.census.gov/newsroom/tip-sheets/2024/tp24-08.html

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8621058 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: May 11, 2024

                                                                          Page 9 of 9
                  Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 8 - April 19, 2024



