

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 7
                                                  NASA Astronaut Candidate 2024




                                        NASA Astronaut Candidate 2024
                                                          News Release Wire
                                               March 24, 2024 Sunday 1:51 PM EST




Copyright 2024 Broadcast Interview Source, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Length: 3370 words

Body

PHOTO ABOVE IS FROM NASA HERA CAMPAIGN 4 Mission 4.

Kent Kalogera, Jennifer Yen, Erin Hayward and Gregory Sachs, May 2017

The NASA Astronaut Candidate Announcement is out!

https://www.usajobs.gov/job/779261100

Closes 4/02/2024

by Kathryn Troutman, March 23, 2024, Potomac, MD

Upon the 50th Anniversary of Apollo 11, I remembered one of my most interesting clients from 2017 who applied for
the NASA Astronaut position. I wrote to him to see what happened with his application. Here is his response:

'Kathryn! Gosh, nice to hear from you. I'm not sure if I sent this to you, but even though I was not selected as an
astronaut, I did use that same resume to be accepted into the NASA HERA program! I There are four missions per
year, each with four participants. Test subjects are treated just like actual astronauts, eating the same food, working
the same basic schedule, complete with 24 hour manned 'mission control'. We would be evaluated on our response
to casualty events, sleep deprivation, dealing with up to 30 minute round trip transmission delays, and much more.'
Greg is pictured above.

Does this sound like an appealing Federal Career path for you? See below my tips for how to begin your application
for NASA ASTRONAUT !

2024 USAJOBS APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS

NO. 1, YOU MUST USE THE USAJOBS BUILDER FOR YOUR RESUME SUBMISSION

Step 1 ' Research Federal Jobs ' Research the Astronaut application process:

Summary: At Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center Astronaut candidates will spend approximately two years training
on the basic skills required to be an astronaut ' from spacewalking and robotics to leadership and teamwork skills.
Upon completing training, they will join the active astronaut corps and become eligible for spaceflight assignment.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 7
                                          NASA Astronaut Candidate 2024

Until assigned a spaceflight, they will have responsibilities within the astronaut office ranging from supporting their
fellow astronauts in space to advising on the development of new spacecraft.

Step 2 ' Networking ' Who Do You Know? Do you know any one at NASA? Space Program? Could help. Watch
YouTubes and read articles from Astronauts.

Step 3 ' Research jobs on USAJOBS ' Astronaut Candidate position is open until 4/02. Apply and see what
happens.

https://www.usajobs.gov/job/779261100

Step 4 ' What are Your Core Competencies?

Here are the core competencies as described in the USAJOBs announcement.
    •   Communicate information and ideas via written, oral, and visual media
    •   Make informed and sound decisions in challenging situations to accomplish mission goals
    •   Sustain motivation, display initiative, and high standards of ethical conduct
    •   Relate well to others including those from varied backgrounds and in different situations
    •   Work well with others to achieve goals both as a leader and a follower
    •   Learn and utilize complex technical information (e.g., troubleshoot, diagnose, analyze, and identify system
        malfunctions to determine the source and cause of the problem)

Step 5 ' Get ready for written application materials to demonstrate the competencies above.

Additionally, written application materials will be evaluated by subject matter experts using the competencies above,
as well as:
    •   Applicability and strength of the applicant's educational preparation
    •   Relevance and diversity of the applicant's work experience, with a priority on operational experience
    •   Strength of the candidate's technical experience in their field of expertise
    •   Demonstrated experience working and performing on a team

Step 6 ' Do you meet the Basic Education Requirements?

BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT                All applicants must meet at least     ONE     of the Basic Education
requirements to be considered for this position. Qualifying international Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Mathematics (STEM) education is allowed as long as you submit proof of appropriate foreign education equivalency
(see below for foreign education details).

To verify the education requirement, you must submit copies of official or non-official transcripts with your
application showing a related STEM major field and date conferred, or Test Pilot School certification/enrollment
from a nationally or internationally recognized program. While a bachelor's degree (or less) is not qualifying
alone, you must submit ALL STEM related transcripts with your application.

The following degree fields, while related to engineering and the sciences, are NOT considered qualifying:
    •   Degrees in Technology (Engineering Technology, Aviation Technology, Medical Technology, etc.)
    •   Degrees in Psychology (except for Clinical Psychology, Physiological Psychology, or Experimental
        Psychology, which are qualifying)
    •   Degrees in Nursing
    •   Degrees in Exercise Physiology or similar fields

                                                                                                     Page 3 of 7
                                         NASA Astronaut Candidate 2024

    •   Degrees in Social Sciences (Geography, Anthropology, Archaeology, etc.)
    •   Degrees in Aviation, Aviation Management, or similar fields

Step 7 ' Do you meet the Basic Sub-Discipline Specialized Experience requirements? Choose your Sub-Discipline.

In addition to the Basic Education requirement, all applicants must meet the Sub-Discipline Specialized
Experience requirements below under one of the designated sub-disciplines: Pilots, Flight Test, Medical Doctors,
Biological and Medical Sciences, Physical Sciences, and Engineering and Operations. You should select the
discipline you best qualify for based on the majority of your work experience.

For each discipline, applicants must have a minimum of 3 years (or 1,000 Pilot-in-Command hours with at
least 850 hours in high performance jet aircraft for Pilots) of progressively responsible, professional
experience after the completion of appropriate technical field degree(s). Experience could have been
gained after the completion of a qualifying bachelor's degree, though this does not negate the requirement
to still possess a higher-level degree.

While you may qualify for multiple disciplines, only one selection below is permitted. Teaching experience,
including experience at the K-12 levels, is acceptable if it was in a related technical field and you also meet the
initial education requirement.

Specialized ExperienceA. Pilot Discipline ' to qualify, you must:
    •   Have at least 1,000 hours of Pilot-In-Command time:

A minimum of 850 hours must be in a high-performance jet aircraft. The remaining hours may be accumulated in
aircraft other than high-performance jet aircraft. (Please annotate total hours of high-performance jet aircraft
demonstrated in resume.)

Complete the Pilot Qualifications Form using the following link and attach as a supporting document to your
application ' Pilot Qualifications Form

OR B. Flight Test Discipline ' to qualify, you must:
    •   Have completed or be currently enrolled in a Test Pilot School program (nationally or internationally
        recognized) and will have completed this program by June 2025. (Must submit proof of completion or
        enrollment.)
    •   Have at least 3 years of professional experience after degree completion in a field related to Flight Test.
        You must certify that this experience was gained in a field related to this sub-discipline and be able to
        provide additional certification upon request. (Must be demonstrated in resume.)

Note: Flight Test includes other military experience outside Pilot-in-Command experience or aircraft
experience that does not qualify for the Pilot discipline. For example, flight test engineers; helicopter pilots;
pilots of non-high performance jet aircraft; navigators, weapons systems officers/operators, back-seat
qualified fliers, or other aircraft-related positions that may have led to the completion of Test Pilot School.
Applicants with test experience but who have not enrolled in or completed Test Pilot School should select
the Engineering and Operations sub-discipline.

Complete the Pilot Qualifications Form using the following link and attach as a supporting document to your
application ' Pilot Qualifications Form

OR C. Medical Doctor Discipline ' to qualify, you must:
    •   Have at least 3 years of professional experience after degree completion in a professional medical field of
        study. Time in residency can count towards experience and must be completed by June 2025. You must
        certify that this experience was gained in a field related to this sub-discipline and be able to provide
        additional certification upon request. (Must be demonstrated in resume.)

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 7
                                          NASA Astronaut Candidate 2024

OR D. Biological and Medical Science Discipline ' to qualify, you must:
    •   Have at least 3 years of professional experience after degree completion in a field related to Biological and
        Medical Sciences. You must certify that this experience was gained in a field related to this sub-discipline
        and be able to provide additional certification upon request. (Must be demonstrated in resume.)

OR E. Physical Science Discipline ' to qualify, you must:
    •   Have at least 3 years of professional experience after degree completion in a field related to Physical
        Science. You must certify that this experience was gained in a field related to this sub-discipline and be
        able to provide additional certification upon request. (Must be demonstrated in resume.)

OR F. Engineering and Operations Discipline ' to qualify, you must:
    •   Have at least 3 years of professional experience after degree completion in a field related to Engineering
        and Operations. You must certify that this experience was gained in a field related to this sub-discipline
        and be able to provide additional certification upon request. (Must be demonstrated in resume.)

Step 8 ' Write your Federal Resume with the USAJOBS Resume Builder ' for Astronaut Candidate.
    •   Only resumes developed using USAJOBS Resume Builder will be accepted. Please be thorough in
        your resume completion, addressing each section.
    •   Don't use AI: You must complete all required steps in the process to be considered. Intentionally
        misrepresenting yourself, overstating qualifications on any of the application materials, assessment
        procedures, cheating, or use of AI will result in removal from consideration.

TIPS FOR RESUME WRITING FOR THE ASTRONAUT APPLICATION:

1. Use the Outline Format to feature important knowledge, skills, and abilities for a Human Test subject and the
Astronaut position. WORK HISTORY ' two parts:OUTLINE FORMAT WITH ALL CAP KEYWORDS. See
Below. Write about your job duties with the following HEADLINES before each paragraph. Use ALL CAPS for
certain keywords to improve the readability of the USAJOBS resume format.

LEADERSHIP / TEAM LEAD DISASTER PREPAREDNESS ROBOTICS ENGINEERING ENGINEERING /
DESIGN RESEARCH & DESIGN LEAD ENGINEERING QUALITY ASSURANCE RISK ASSESSMENT SAFETY &
OCCUPATION SAFETY ENTREPRENEURSHIP SPEAKER / BRIEFER TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS
THINKING

2. Add MAJOR PROJECTS. The projects should include specific projects that will demonstrate your skills and
past performance. This is critical to prove that you have performed the skills you just wrote in the resume. A specific
risk, robot, engineering project would be great. What was the name of the project? What were the challenges, your
actions, and the results? Each project should be 150-200 characters and describe your skills and results.

EDUCATION: STEM majors. Include college, degree, major, significant courses, projects, skills. Descriptions of
capstone projects, major engineering or science projects, including thesis, methods and outcomes.

OTHER ACTIVITIES AND INTERESTS:              Sports, marathons, sailing competitions, camping, any isolationist
projects, mountain climbing, extreme sports, cycling, bodybuilding, wellness interests. Any vehicle modelling,
including propulsion and movement (legos, trains, airplanes, aircraft, cars, race cars, drones)

Volunteer activities, which will demonstrate strength, emotional intelligence, team building, human performance
interests, disaster or emergency management skills and experiences. Mechanical interests and hobbies,
equipment skills; gaming, robotics. Arthroscopic experience (surgeons can apply).

LANGUAGES: Do You speak Russian?

USAJOBS BUILDER: Use it. Mandatory.

                                                                                                         Page 5 of 7
                                           NASA Astronaut Candidate 2024

Step 9 ' Any flight experience? Fill out a special form for Pilot and Flight Test sub-disciplines.

https://www.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/jf603_summary_of_aeronautical_experience.pdf?emrc=53d212

Step 10 'The Questionnaire ' Review the job-related questionnaire before you apply. Samples of the questionnaire:

https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/12288466

FOR ONE OF THE FIRST QUESTIONS, YOU WRITE A LIST OF YOUR SPORTS AND ACTIVITIES: Please
describe any other skills you possess or activities you participate in that provide additional support to your
application to become an astronaut candidate. Examples might include scuba diving, sports, music, languages,
computer software/hardware tools, machinery, volunteer work, etc.

Other questions in the questionnaire: Astronaut Candidates will be required to pass a swimming test during the
first month of training. Are you willing to submit to a swimming test?

11.To simulate microgravity in space, astronaut candidates and astronauts participate in training that requires
extended time underwater (up to 8 hours a day), using SCUBA gear or the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU, or
spacesuit). Are you willing to spend extended time training underwater? A. Yes B. No 12. Training for missions is
arduous and takes approximately two to three years. This training requires extensive travel, including long periods
in other countries training with NASA's international partners where family members may not always be able to join.
Are you willing to participate in extended travel and periods away from home? A. Yes B. No 13. Long-duration
missions can last 12 months or longer. Astronauts are subject to isolation, confinement, extreme conditions
(including austere living conditions), and separation from loved ones. Are you willing to be deployed to space for
long-duration missions? A. Yes B. No 14. Astronaut candidates and astronauts live, work, and train in remote,
isolated, small, or confined spaces for prolonged periods of time. Are you willing to spend extended periods of time
in remote, isolated, small, or confined spaces? A. Yes B. No 15. Astronaut candidates and astronauts sometimes
work in dangerous and life-threatening situations. Are you willing to work in potentially dangerous situations? A. Yes
B. No 16. NASA astronauts appear before a variety of groups to inform the public about the U.S. space program
and international cooperation. This includes schools and universities, community organizations, businesses and
associations, military organizations, politicians, and officials of the U.S. and partner Governments. Are you willing to
appear before these groups (as well as others), and present information on behalf of NASA and the U.S. space
program (even if you may be presenting information in conflict with your personal opinions or views)? A. Yes B. No
17. Graduation from the Astronaut Candidate Program will require successful completion of the following:
spacecraft systems training, Extravehicular Activity (EVA) skills training, robotics skills training, Russian or other
language training, aircraft flight readiness training (flying in high performance aircraft), technical training with
commercial space partners, and team skills training, among others. Completion of all elements takes approximately
2 years. Are you willing to undergo and complete such training? A. Yes B. No 18. There are multiple factors, some
of which are outside of NASA's control, that are considered when identifying launch opportunities. NASA cannot
guarantee if or when an astronaut is assigned to or will be able to execute a mission. Are you willing to join the
astronaut corps not knowing how long you must wait to be assigned to a mission or if you will be assigned a
mission at all? A. Yes B. No 19. Do you understand and accept work hours are irregular and may require nights,
weekends, holidays, shifting sleep cycles, and working longer than typical 8hour periods to support operations
when necessary? A. Yes B. No

Step 11 ' Apply for the Astronaut position and Track and Follow-up for Status.

To view the announcement status or your application status: Click on this: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-
to/application/status/ . Your application status page is where you can view your application status, USA Hire
assessment completion status, and review your notifications sent by the hiring agency regarding your application.

All application documentation must be received by the closing date of the announcement in order to be considered
and have a complete application. Documentation mailed or emailed to the Astronaut Selection Office will not be

                                                                                                         Page 6 of 7
                                          NASA Astronaut Candidate 2024

considered. All previous applicants MUST reapply                and   complete    the   entire   application   process.
https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/12288466

Step 12 ' USA Hire Assessment Situational Judgement Test ' takes 2.5 hours.

You will receive a link to the USA Hire Assessment after you click APPLY. Read about it here:
https://help.usastaffing.gov/Apply/index.php?title=USA_Hire_Assessments

Step 13 ' Track and Follow Up on your Application Status.

Follow your application in your USAJOBS application track. Find out if your references have been contacted. If you
don't get selected for this application, find out what you can improve, and apply again. Most Astronauts apply for the
position multiple times.

The selection process is estimated to take approximately one (1) year to complete. NASA anticipates announcing a
new class of astronauts in the Summer 2025. Final notification of your status will be sent at that time. Multiple
selections may be made under this announcement. Selected candidates will report for duty at the Johnson Space
Center in Houston, TX in the Fall of 2025.

Step 14 ' Interview for the Astronaut Candidate Position.

Astronaut interview will be multiple stages:         Pre-interview by phone Formal interview with panel Multiple
medical and psychological tests Many physical tests More tests. Just keep going and find out your results.
Hopefully, you will pass the interviews and examinations. If not, apply again; improve your results.

Try and try again. Most astronauts applied up to 15 times and kept trying. Read this GREAT article for more
background:

https://www.space.com/25786-how-to-become-an-astronaut.html

Astronaut Federal Resume Reviews, 2 hours x $260 = $520.

Send your USAJOBS resume to [email protected] Subjectline: Your name, NASA Astronaut Resume Review
Request

Please pay here: Make A Payment Amount: $520 Description: NASA Astronaut Resume Review

WANT TO SEE SAMPLES OF THE FEDERAL RESUME FORMAT THAT IS CORRECT FOR THE USAJOBS
BUILDER?

The Book: The Federal Resume Guidebook, 7th Edition, was chosen in 2021 as the Best Reference Book by both
the Ben Franklin Awards and the Independent Press Awards.

Federal Resume Guidebook, 7th Ed.

Purchase the Guidebook hereLink to Image

The Author: In 2022, Kathryn Troutman received the National Resume Writers Association's Industry Hero Award
for her 'significant contributions' to the specialized field of Federal resume writing. She is the author of many award-
winning Federal career guides including the Student's Federal Career Guide, 4th Edition, and The Stars Are Lined
Up for Military Spouses, 2nd Edition. Her firm, the Resume Place, offers Federal resume writing and job coaching
services in Potomac, MD.

About:

Kathryn Troutman can answer your questions regarding how people land Competitive Federal Jobs via
USAJOBS.GOV, Political Appointments with the Biden-Harris Administration, Senior Executive Service jobs in

                                                                                                  Page 7 of 7
                                        NASA Astronaut Candidate 2024

Government. This year will be a banner year for all Federal jobs! And with COVID-19 Federal response, more
agencies will be hiring for many positions - Public Health, Medical / Healthcare, Cyber, IT, Logistics, Finance,
Accounting! The author of seven books on federal jobhunting, she's also the Federal Career Coach for individuals
seeking first-time federal careers! An engaging and energetic media guest, Troutman has been interviewed on
NPR, the Washington Post's 'Federal Diary Live On-line,' and radio stations across the country. In addition, she
trains and certifies career counselors and military transition counselors in Ten Steps to a Federal Job(r).

http://www.Newsreleasewire.com/303192


Load-Date: March 25, 2024


  
