

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
                             HII Completes Builder’s Trials On Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29)




          HII Completes Builder’s Trials On Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29)
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                            February 1, 2024 Thursday 11:30 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 486 words

Body

PASCAGOULA, Miss., Feb. 01, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- HII’s (NYSE: HII) Ingalls Shipbuilding division
announced today the successful completion of builder’s sea trials for the amphibious transport dock ship Richard M.
McCool Jr. (LPD 29). The San Antonio-class ship spent time in the Gulf of Mexico testing all systems in preparation
for the remaining events that will occur prior to delivery of the ship, expected to occur in the spring.

“Our shipbuilders have worked hard to get LPD 29 to sea,” Ingalls Shipbuilding Ship Program Manager Davianne
Stokes said. “We are absolutely dedicated to get this important asset into the hands of our Navy and Marine Corps
partners.”

Ingalls Shipbuilding has delivered 12 San Antonio-class ships and currently has three LPDs under construction,
including Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29); Harrisburg (LPD 30), the first Flight II LPD; and Pittsburgh (LPD 31).
LPD Flight II is the next generation amphibious ship to replace Whidbey Island (LSD 41) and Harpers Ferry (LSD
49) classes of dock landing ships.

Photos accompanying this release are available at: https://hii.com/news/hii-builders-trials-richard-m-mccool-jr-lpd-
29/.

In March 2023, Ingalls received a $1.3 billion modification to a previously awarded contract from the U.S. Navy for
the procurement of the detail design and construction of LPD 32, named Philadelphia, the 16th ship in the San
Antonio class and the third LPD Flight II.

Amphibious transport dock ships are a major part of the Navy’s 21st century expeditionary force, deployed with a
U.S. Marine Corps Air-Ground Task Force for amphibious and expeditionary crisis response operations that range
from deterrence and joint-force enablement to humanitarian assistance and disaster relief.

About HII

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
                          HII Completes Builder’s Trials On Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29)

HII is a global, all-domain defense provider. HII’s mission is to deliver the world’s most powerful ships and all-
domain solutions in service of the nation, creating the advantage for our customers to protect peace and freedom
around the world.

As the nation’s largest military shipbuilder, and with a more than 135-year history of advancing U.S. national
security, HII delivers critical capabilities extending from ships to unmanned systems, cyber, ISR, AI/ML and
synthetic training. Headquartered in Virginia, HII’s workforce is 44,000 strong. For more information, visit:
    •      HII on the web: https://www.HII.com/

    •      HII on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/TeamHII

    •      HII on X: https://www.twitter.com/WeAreHII

    •      HII on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/WeAreHII

Contact:

Kimberly K. Aguillard228-355-5663Kimberly.K.Aguillard@hii-co.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                      at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/075fc567-223c-40b8-88b8-893c84ce6130

LPD 29 Builder's Trials

HII’s Ingalls Shipbuilding division has announced the completion of the builder’s trials for San Antonio-class
amphibious transport dock Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29).


Load-Date: February 1, 2024


  
