

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                                         WHO'S BUYING NUCLEAR ENERGY?




                                     WHO'S BUYING NUCLEAR ENERGY?
                                                States News Service
                                             February 8, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 688 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, DC

Body


The following information was released by the Nuclear Energy Institute:

Kayley Deaton

With all this buzz around nuclear deals and country agreements, you may be wondering, What is driving demand
for new nuclear? Well, the answer is simple: customers. They come in all shapes and sizes from all over the world,
just like the nuclear reactors themselves, but they all have one thing in commonthey need energy and lots of it.

The Market

With global carbon emissions reaching more than 37 billion tons in 2022, greater attention is being placed on their
source. Any individual or corporation that uses electricity, heat, or other forms of energy to fuel their day-to-day
activities has a role to play in global emissions targets.

And projections on energy demand are growing at a staggering pace. In the U.S. alone, electricity usage by 2050 is
expected to increase by nearly 27 percent. Large energy consumers like data centersthe backbone of our
internetand industrial companies require massive, reliable amounts of energy to power their operations.

If the source of that energy is unexpectedly unavailable, its bad for businessand, more often than not, its bad for all
of us.

On top of addressing emissions and meeting power demands, customers are also concerned about affordability.
Together, these factors make up the energy trilemma.

The Buyers

When it comes to nuclear energy and its customer base, its probably easier to ask, Who isnt interested? Ultimately,
its all about what the customer is looking forand nuclear checks a lot of boxes.

AI and machine learning require large amounts of always-on electricity. Chemical processing and metal refineries
require a steady source of heat to power their manufacturing needs. Agriculture and transportation giants are

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                                      WHO'S BUYING NUCLEAR ENERGY?

looking to fuel their operations with clean resources. Remote and disaster relief areas need clean, reliable
alternatives to diesel generation.

And thats just a small taste of the full customer buffet. Military bases, utility companies, and whole countries are
looking at next-generation nuclear for its versatility, reliability, and affordability.

The Deals

Given the wide range of customer types, its not surprising how many moves are being made.

Countries like Bulgaria and Poland are signing agreements for both small and large reactors to fulfill their power
needs. And Europes not the only region showing love to large nuclear reactors. Late last year, Westinghouse CEO
Patrick Fragman said, There are some American utilities which are very seriously talking with us about new
AP1000s.

In a landmark agreement, Microsoft agreed to buy nuclear energy from Constellation to power one of their data
centers in Virginia. And Microsoft is building a team to help integrate SMR and microreactor technology into their
business plans.

Theyre not the only customer taking a serious look at smaller reactors. Dow Chemical chose their Seadrift, Texas,
manufacturing facility to house their first SMR project with X-energy. Standard Power announced an agreement
with NuScale to provide their SMR technology to two data center facilities in Ohio and Pennsylvania. And
Westinghouse announced their microreactor design and secured their first customerall in the same year.

Nowadays, it feels like new announcements are constantly being made.

Utility companies are including SMRs in their resource planning while also looking to extend the life of their current
nuclear power plants. For example, Duke Energy recently proposed a plan that includes 600 MWe of new nuclear
by 2035 and supports the license extensions of eleven existing reactors. Dominion Energys recent plan outlines five
scenarios, four of which include the development of SMRs.

States are also indicating their support, with both Minnesota and Michigan passing ambitious Clean Energy
Standards that include nuclear, while Idaho, Tennessee, and North Carolina passed measures to define nuclear as
clean generation resources.

A recent report documented findings from conversations with members of the financial community, and the role
next-generation nuclear will play in industrial decarbonization was listed as a major benefit.


Load-Date: February 8, 2024


  
