

                                                                                               Page 1 of 5
  House Oversight and Accountability Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Energy Policy, and Regulatory Affairs
                          Hearing "Drilling Down: Oversight of the Challenges an....




  House Oversight and Accountability Subcommittee on Economic Growth,
 Energy Policy, and Regulatory Affairs Hearing; "Drilling Down: Oversight of
    the Challenges and Opportunities Facing U.S. Energy Production.";
  Testimony by Tim Tarpley, President, Energy Workforce and Technology
                                  Council
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                             April 23, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES DOCUMENTS
Length: 3097 words

Body


Chairman Fallon, Ranking Member Bush, and distinguished members of the subcommittee, thank you for inviting
me to testify here today. I am here to testify in my capacity as President at the Energy Workforce and Technology
Council.

Energy Workforce and Technology Council is the national trade association for the energy services and technology
sector, representing over 200 companies and employing more than 650,000 energy workers, manufacturers and
innovators in the energy supply chain. Our workforce is in all 50 states, with representation in the vast majority of
congressional districts across the country. Our membership ranges from large energy services companies with
global operations all the way down to small family-owned well-servicing companies that operate locally within the
U.S. Our member companies provide the United States and the world with energy in the most environmentally safe,
efficient, and responsible way possible, and our sector is leading the development of technology that will ensure our
country maintains energy security that will power our economy and protect our way of life for generations to come.

I appreciate the opportunity to testify on the challenges and opportunities in oil and gas production in the United
States. The United States is blessed with tremendous sources of domestic energy that, if utilized fully, can protect
us from suffering a similar energy-reliance disaster as experienced in Europe since the Russian invasion of
Ukraine. In addition to ample renewable energy sources, the United States boasts multiple basins with significant oil
and natural gas reserves. Very few countries in the world are lucky enough to have these resources available
locally. As long as we continue to allow Americans to access these resources, we will always have enough energy
to take care of our people as well as our friends and allies. Unfortunately, our worst enemy is often ourselves and
we continue to make policy decisions that limit and complicate our access to these resources.

The domestic production of energy is critical to our national security. Despite statements by the current
Administration to the contrary, the truth is that the United States and the world will need a lot more oil and gas in the
coming decades, even as new forms of energy come online. The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA)

                                                                                               Page 2 of 5
  House Oversight and Accountability Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Energy Policy, and Regulatory Affairs
                          Hearing "Drilling Down: Oversight of the Challenges an....

predicts that the worldwide demand for all forms of energy will increase by 50% by 2050, as seen in Figure 1. More
recently, AI and data centers are fueling a huge increase in power demand forecasts throughout the country. The
North American Electric Reliability Corp. Long Term Reliability Assessment projected new electricity demand in
2023 was up to 563.9K gigawatt hours, up from 220K in 2022. There is simply no way to meet this growing demand
without a tremendous buildout in natural gas power generation. A key to ensuring that the domestic production of oil
and gas continues is to ensure that there are ample markets for our products to be sold and to maintain prices at a
level that will continue to incentivize production.

Offshore Production Challenges

Unfortunately, instead of taking steps to incentivize the production of more energy to meet this growing demand, the
Biden administration has used every delay tactic and legal maneuver possible to deny American's access to the
resources located offshore the United States. It took Congress to pass language in the Inflation Reduction Act to
force Interior to restart lease sales at all, despite the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) requiring the
preparation and maintenance of forward-looking five-year plans n1 Even then, the 5-year plan Interior released over
a year late includes the smallest number of lease sales in the history of the program.

Delays by this Administration in restarting the plan have ceased exploratory well drilling, reduced the industry
spending levels, drastically decreased employment across the offshore energy sector, lessened gross domestic
product (GDP) and government revenues and plummeted oil and natural gas production across the Gulf of Mexico.
Limiting lease sales to such an artificially low number harms the U.S. economy, U.S. employment and forces the
United States and our allies to use oil and gas from less responsible and reliable sources.

In 2022, the Gulf of Mexico offshore oil and natural gas industry supported an estimated 372,000 jobs in the United
States n2 According to an Energy and Industrial Advisory Partners and National Ocean Industries Association
report, in 2022 alone, activity in the Gulf of Mexico contributed approximately $30.8 billion to the U.S. GDP. Looking
ahead, the report indicates the industry is anticipated to maintain a consistent contribution, averaging about $31.4
billion of GDP per year over the forecast period from 2022 to 2040. Assuming no further delays, this revenue source
is expected to average an annual projection of over $7.4 billion from 2022 to 2040. The Administration's delays and
limitations on offshore lease sales not only harm the U.S. economy, employment rates, and energy production but
also jeopardize our reliance on responsible and reliable energy sources, impacting both domestic and international
interests.

Limiting access to the resources in the Gulf of Mexico may also result in the use of higher emission energy sources.
According to the 2022 NOIA report, the increase in U.S. Gulf of Mexico production, if it were to offset foreign crude
or condensate, would significantly reduce carbon intensity. This reduction would amount to a remarkable 46%
decrease in the international average carbon intensity for the displaced oil. This is equivalent to removing 11.3
CO2e kg/bbl from the current global average of 24.4 CO2e kg/bbl n3 The U.S. Gulf of Mexico stands out as a
region with some of the lowest carbon barrels of oil, particularly when compared to other oil-producing regions. A
significant contributor to this is effective methane management. U.S. offshore operations in the Gulf of Mexico
maintain stringent controls on methane emissions, resulting in notably lower emissions than those observed in other
producing regions. The Gulf is also subject to a strong regulatory oversight framework and has adequate pipeline
infrastructure to move product to market safely and efficiently.

The U.S. Gulf of Mexico boasts approximately half the carbon intensity of other producing regions n4 What's more,
this environmental performance continues to improve. From 2011 to 2017, according to the BOEM, carbon
emissions from U.S. Gulf operations decreased by approximately 60%, even as oil production increased by over
35% n5 According to the 2021 Wood Mackenzie Emissions Benchmarking Tool, the deepwater and continental
shelf regions have the lowest Scopes 1 and 2 emissions intensity compared to other oil producing areas at
~20KgCO2e/boe. This low emissions intensity also translates over internationally, where U.S. GOM has
significantly lower GHG intensity than other producers, including Norway, according to a 2023 ICF Consulting
Study.

                                                                                               Page 3 of 5
  House Oversight and Accountability Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Energy Policy, and Regulatory Affairs
                          Hearing "Drilling Down: Oversight of the Challenges an....

LNG Permitting "Pause"

On January 26th of this year, the Administration announced that it would "pause" new approvals for LNG export
applications to non-FTA countries while it conducted a review that will "look at the economic and environmental
impacts of projects seeking approval." Many of the projects whose permit approval will be paused will ultimately
ship LNG to Europe, Asia and other allies that do not have a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the United States.
This means that in addition to the FERC approval, these projects will necessitate a DOE "national interest" analysis.
This is incredibly impactful, as 80% of US LNG exports go to non-FTA countries. European countries are especially
vulnerable to this pause, and they are working to find consistent and predictable sources of gas to power their
economies after the disruption to Russian gas caused by the invasion of Ukraine.

Shockingly, the Administration has taken this action despite the Presidents pledge to do the opposite. On March
25th, 2022, President Biden and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen stood together and jointly
pledged to work together to lay the framework for a large increase in US LNG to be imported into the EU to allow
their economies and population to survive without being beholden to Russian gas. This pledge would not only
benefit our allies but would dramatically benefit the US economy and the US energy workforce. An analysis of the
president's pledge found that the benefits to the United States could include $63 billion in capital expenditures, a
GDP boost of $46 billion, and 71,500 jobs supported annually from 2025-2030.

The shale gas revolution has triggered a seismic shift in the dynamics of U.S. natural gas supply and demand,
heralding an era characterized by abundant and affordable natural gas resources, consequently propelling the
United States into global energy dominance. Over the past decade, prices at the Henry Hub have maintained an
average of approximately $4.10/MMBtu, marking a remarkable reduction of over 54% compared to the preceding
decade. Despite the unprecedented surge in natural gas exports witnessed in the first half of 2023, prices at the
Henry Hub plummeted to $2.48 per MMBtu, marking the lowest six-month average in over 35 years n6 (not
accounting for the period during the COVID-19 pandemic). The development timelines for LNG projects afford U.S.
natural gas producers ample opportunity to ramp up production to meet the demands of burgeoning LNG export
ventures. Consequently, the U.S. natural gas market accommodates the increased demand from new LNG
terminals well before their operation, with the predictability of long-term contracts ensuring minimal fluctuations in
domestic prices. This predictable demand also helps cushion for domestic workers from seasonal and weather-
related price fluctuations in the price of gas.

U.S. LNG exports yield significant economic advantages by bolstering natural gas production, thereby enhancing
labor income within the sector and driving down the costs of imported goods while bolstering the value of the dollar,
consequently stimulating heightened economic activity, according to the Center for LNG. Furthermore, the study
shows that U.S. LNG exports will serve to stabilize the domestic market while incentivizing increased natural gas
production, thereby catalyzing billions of dollars in fresh investments that benefit local communities. This infusion of
capital not only generates tax revenues but also fosters employment opportunities, with job creation numbering in
the thousands during the construction phase and extending into the tens of thousands across the supply chain
during operational phases, including manufacturing roles.

Here in Texas, in addition to oil and gas, we are known for Blue Bell Ice Cream. They like to say we can eat all we
can and sell the rest. The same can be said for natural gas. We have enough gas in the United States to provide
cheap, low emissions energy for our population and sell the rest.

Ironically, this pause was justified by an alleged need to review the "environmental impacts" of the projects. The
reality, however, is that LNG exports and the use of natural gas for power generation actually lower emissions
dramatically. According to the EIA, the United States has lowered our emissions since 2005 more than nearly
anywhere in the world, primarily by transitioning coal-fired power generation to natural gas. Why would we deny our
friends and allies abroad the ability to do the same?

Methane Tax

                                                                                               Page 4 of 5
  House Oversight and Accountability Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Energy Policy, and Regulatory Affairs
                          Hearing "Drilling Down: Oversight of the Challenges an....

In addition to limiting access to resources, the Administration has taken steps to increase the cost of domestic
production of energy. Beginning in 2025, Methane Emissions Reduction Program (MERP) will implement a charge
(or tax) on the reported prior-year tons of methane emissions from oil and natural gas systems that exceed more
than 25,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent gas. The fee will start at $900 per metric ton this year, rising to
$1,200 in 2025 and reaching $1,500 in 2026 and going forward. To complicate the implementation and
understanding of this new fee structure to the industry, it comes right on the heels of the newly finalized EPA
requirements for methane emissions, which kick in later this decade.

Energy Workforce has opposed the implementation of this new fee, as we believe it will raise the cost of producing
energy in the United States and could disproportionately impact small producers. America is lucky to have both
large oil and gas producers and smaller independents who often have varying types of business models. This
variation ensures that we receive the maximum amount of production which benefits all Americans.

Opportunities in Energy Production

Not only can we increase oil and gas production in the United States by reducing the regulatory burden, but
technological advancements are allowing us to produce more oil and gas more efficiently than ever. In addition to
these efficiencies and innovations, producing oil and gas in the United States, including offshore, stands out for its
significantly lower carbon intensity compared to other countries, with stringent methane management contributing to
reduced emissions. Policymakers should focus on encouraging and incentivizing innovation rather than taxing
production, given the industry's track record of developing technologies and addressing emissions.

Efficiencies and Innovations in Oil and Gas

Drilling efficiencies have increased dramatically in the past ten years. In March of this year, according to Baker
Hughes, there were 629 drilling rigs active in the US. That's down 16% from the 732 total rigs around the US during
the same time last year n7 However, US crude output is the highest ever. What does this mean? It means that we
are using less energy to make energy than ever before. This is good news. It also means that the per barrel
emissions rate is significantly lower. What are these innovations?

Companies in the oil and gas sector maintain a relentless focus on innovation due to several key reasons. Firstly,
there is a pressing demand for cost-effective and safe drilling methods, propelling ongoing patent innovations within
the industry. Technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), 3D printing, and big data have
become increasingly crucial, pushing companies to explore and integrate them into their operations. Automated
drilling tools, powered by advanced technology, offer significant benefits such as enhanced drilling efficiency,
greater accuracy, reduced human errors, and improved safety measures. This continuous evolution in drilling
automation and innovation is a key aspect of the energy services and technology sector as our members look to
optimize performance and maximize production.

Energy service companies developed the process of "EFrac" which involves electrifying the hydraulic fracturing
process by recycling excess natural gas that would otherwise be released, using it to power turbines for fracturing
and pumping. This approach leverages the significantly lower cost and abundance of natural gas, offering
substantial emissions benefits with a 25% reduction in emissions and up to 90% savings in fuel costs. This dual
advantage makes electric frac a rare win-win scenario, addressing both cost efficiency and environmental concerns.
Natural gas emits fewer greenhouse gases when combusted compared to diesel, approximately 27% less CO2 n8
and is abundant in areas like the Permian.

Energy Workforce members are also making lower emissions energy possible by building on our industry's long
history of developing and deploying technological solutions on a global scale. These technologies include
comprehensive methane monitoring, comprised of leak detection that includes the location and rate quantification in
real time so that operators can take immediate action to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and save costs.
These technologies have been available to operators since the 2010s and include a wide range of options. For
example, since 2018, a team has been utilizing drones equipped with methane detection cameras and sensors in
the Permian Basin. It has conducted over 1,000 inspections using drones and drone mounted sensors, combined

                                                                                               Page 5 of 5
  House Oversight and Accountability Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Energy Policy, and Regulatory Affairs
                          Hearing "Drilling Down: Oversight of the Challenges an....

with an artificial intelligence (AI) enabled software platform. This effort is contributing to meeting an operator's
goals of maintaining methane emissions intensity below 0.2% by 2025 and meeting the requirements of the Oil and
Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 framework.

Similarly, since 2018, continuous commercial monitoring has been available using a sensor network strategically
placed at an oil or natural gas production site to monitor for emissions. Industry-wide, there are at least 5 million
sensor operation hours for continuous monitoring, providing years of reliable and actionable emissions data for
operators. The real-time and historical trend data available from continuous monitoring has provided many
advantages in data science and process automation for operators including new levels of emissions visibility and
how emissions correlate to the operational schedules and processes. Ultimately, this provides a better source of
information to help prioritize repair efforts and significantly shortens the time between initial detection and repair.

All of these innovations and efficiencies will continue to grow. America is leading the way. The American energy
outlook is overall very positive. We have abundant resources, and American ingenuity continues to allow us to
produce better energy. American energy workers have a bright future ahead of them. If we make the right policy
choices, we can take care of our own energy needs as well as supporting our friends and allies. This will ensure
that our economy will have the energy it needs to continue to grow and American families will continue to have
access to the most affordable and reliable energy system that the world has ever seen.

n1 (Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the United States House of Representatives, n.d.) .

n2 (Energy and Industrial Advisory Partners, 2022) .

n3 (Energy and Industrial Advisory Partners, 2022) .

n4 (Energy and Industrial Advisory Partners, 2022) .

n5 (Energy and Industrial Advisory Partners, 2022) .

n6 (Energy Ventures Analysis, 2024)

n7 (Mathews, 2024) .

n8 (U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2023) ,

Read this original       document     at:   https://oversight.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Tarpley-Written-
Testimony.pdf


Load-Date: April 24, 2024


  
