

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 9
                                   Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024




                    Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            January 26, 2024 Friday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3944 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(TNSres) -- The U.S. Census Bureau issued the following tip sheet (No. 2):

***

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

Census Scientific Advisory Committee: Call for Nominations

The U.S. Census Bureau is requesting nominations to the Census Scientific Advisory Committee (CSAC) through
the Federal Register Notice (FRN). CSAC provides recommendations on the design, operation and implementation
of Census Bureau programs. New members will serve a 3-year term. Nominations must be submitted through the
FRN by February 2, 2024.

2030 Preparation

Initial Strategies for 2030 Census Preparations

The Census Bureau plans to release five strategy documents outlining how it plans to carry out the next decennial
census. The strategies cover the Census Bureau's approach for conducting a complete count, designing
operations, developing the IT solution, sourcing contracts and engaging with stakeholders for the 2030 Census.
(Tentatively scheduled for release in February.)

2020 Census

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024

Detailed DHC-B Proof of Concept

The Census Bureau will release a proof of concept and host a webinar and for the 2020 Census Detailed
Demographic and Housing Characteristics File B (Detailed DHC-B) for public review and feedback. The Detailed
DHC-B includes household type and tenure data for approximately 1,500 detailed racial and ethnic groups and
American Indian and Alaska Native tribes and villages. This proof of concept illustrates the proposed 2020 Census
Detailed DHC-B data product design and disclosure avoidance settings using 2010 Census data. A 30-day public
feedback period on the proof of concept concludes on February 28. The final Detailed DHC-B based on 2020
Census     data    will   be    released    in     September      2024.    Learn       more     at  the    webinar
(https://www.census.gov/data/academy/webinars/2024/disclosure-avoidance-series/dhc-b-proof-of-concept.html) on
January 29 from 3-4 p.m. EST. (Scheduled for release January 29.)

2020 Island Areas Censuses Detailed Cross-Tabulations Data

The Census Bureau will release detailed cross-tabulation data for the U.S. Island Areas: American Samoa, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The release includes 95
demographic, social, economic and housing characteristics tables. These characteristics are cross tabulated by
race, age, sex, place of birth, educational attainment, labor force status, occupation, industry, and income and
earnings. Housing characteristics are cross tabulated by age of householder, household income in 2019, household
size, tenure, units in structure and year built. This final release of 2020 Island Areas Censuses data include the
Island Area and county levels of geography. More information is available on the 2020 Island Areas Censuses Data
Products       webpage          (https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/decennial-census/decade/2020/planning-
management/release/2020-island-areas-data-products.html#demprofile). (Scheduled for release February 15.)

American Community Survey

2022 Community Resilience Estimates, New Winter Weather and Flooding Ranking Tables

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2022 Community Resilience Estimates (CRE) and new ranking tables of
U.S. areas most socially vulnerable to winter weather and flooding. The CRE interactive tool and datasets pages
will also be updated with the new 2022 CRE data. Community resilience is the capacity of individuals and
households within a community to absorb the external stresses of a disaster. The CRE measures the social
vulnerability of a community that inhibits community resilience based on 10 topics from the American Community
Survey, including poverty status, disability status, age, broadband internet access, and health insurance coverage.
(Scheduled for release January 30.)

New Report on the Nation's Foreign-Born Population

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new data products highlighting select demographic and socioeconomic
characteristics of the nation's foreign-born population. The Foreign-Born Population 2022 report compares 2010
and 2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year estimates to provide insight into the changing composition of
the foreign-born population in the United States. The Highlights of the Foreign-Born Population data visualization
displays 2018-2022 ACS 5-year estimates about the foreign-born population at various levels of geography
(national, state and county). (Tentatively scheduled for release February 21.)

Demographic

Household Pulse Survey

The experimental Household Pulse Survey (HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4 topics include employment status, spending, food security, housing, health, mental health, natural
disasters, inflation and spending, vaccine receipt, COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, shortage of critical products,
disability, income, social connection and child care arrangements. Data collection for phase 4.0 began January 9,

                                                                                                     Page 3 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024

with data dissemination, including detailed data tables and public- use files on a monthly basis. (Scheduled for
release February 22, March 21 and April 18.)

Economic

Transitioning multiple annual economic surveys to the new Annual Integrated Economic Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will announce the launch of the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) beginning in
March. This new program replaces seven annual economic surveys, streamlining reporting by consolidating all
necessary questions into one convenient survey. The AIES will replace the Annual Capital Expenditures Survey
(ACES), Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS), Annual Survey of Manufactures (ASM), Annual Wholesale Trade
Survey (AWTS), Manufacturers' Unfilled Orders Survey (M3UFO), Report of Organization (COS), and the Service
Annual Survey (SAS). Companies selected to participate in the AIES will receive a survey invitation in March of
2024.

The statistics created from that data will provide key measures of economic activity, including the only
comprehensive national and subnational data on business revenues, expenses and assets on an annual basis. For
more information on the AIES, visit census.gov/aies.

2022 Annual Wholesale Trade Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release data tables from the 2022 Annual Wholesale Trade Survey (AWTS). This
survey produces national estimates of total annual sales, e-commerce sales, end-of-year inventories, purchases,
operating expenses, gross margins and commissions for wholesale businesses located in the United States. The
AWTS provides statistics for merchant wholesalers of durable and nondurable goods; manufacturers' sales
branches and offices; and wholesale electronic markets, agents and brokers. (Scheduled for release January 29.)

2022 Annual Retail Trade Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release data tables from the 2022 Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS). This survey
produces national estimates of total annual sales, e-commerce sales, end-of-year inventories, purchases, total
operating expenses and gross margins for retail businesses located in the United States. The data are published on
a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) basis and the estimates are used to benchmark the
monthly retail sales and inventories estimates each spring. (Scheduled for release January 29.)

Census Business Builder Version 5.4

The U.S. Census Bureau will release version 5.4 of the Census Business Builder tool. This update will feature a
new enhancement that will allow users to evaluate declared disaster areas and their impacts. CBB v5.4 will also
include enhancements to existing functionality and the latest data available. More information on Census Business
Builder is available online (https://www.census.gov/data/data-tools/cbb.Help_&_FAQs.html.html). (Scheduled for
release in February.) *Updated Jan. 29, 2024.

2022 Service Annual Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new data tables from the 2022 Service Annual Survey (SAS). The SAS
provides statistics on revenue, payroll, sources of revenue, expenses, exports, inventory, revenue from electronic
sources and other selected industry-specific data for service industries. The data are accompanied by supporting
materials, including a data visualization that provides revenue statistics for all sectors covered by the SAS.
(Scheduled for release January 30.)

2020 Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics Data

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2020 Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics (NES-D). Included in this
release are demographic data by urban and rural classification, receipt size of firm and legal form of organization
plus characteristics of nonemployer business owners. The NES-D is an annual statistical series that uses existing

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 9
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024

administrative records and census data to link demographic characteristics to the universe of nonemployer
businesses. (Scheduled for release February 8.)

"Studying Workers' Travel Patterns to Employment Centers Using Census Data"

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute presents,
"Studying Workers Travel Patterns to Employment Centers Using Census Data." This study explores workers
historical travel patterns, utilizing the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) Origin-Destination
Employment Statistics (LODES) data to gain insight into the relationship between demographic characteristics and
primary employment centers in the San Diego region. Results of this study will help local policy makers and key
stakeholders to institute data driven programs and policies to improve regional transportation systems leading to
reduced congestion and emissions. (Schedule for release February 21.)

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release data from the 2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES)
highlighting the industries with the largest total capital expenditures for structures and equipment for companies
with employees in 2022. Data are based on the 2022 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The
ACES provides the only comprehensive estimates of annual U.S. capital expenditures data covering all domestic
nonfarm businesses and detailing investments by type and industry. (Tentatively scheduled for release February
28.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. BTOS
experimental data products are representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding farms.
Data are available by additional employment size classes: 1-4 employees, 5-9 employees, 10-19 employees, 20-49
employees, 50-99 employees, 100-249 employees and 250 or more employees. The data allow greater insight into
the state of the economy by providing continuous, timely information for key economic measures. Data are released
biweekly and are available by sector, state and the 25 most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Additional
details on artificial intelligence use and types used will be added for one cycle starting December 4, 2023, and
released in March 2024. Because of the change in sample composition, BTOS data from before September 11,
2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional and national levels and by industry sector
at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released February 14 and include January 2024 data. Business
Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (https://www.census.gov/econ/bfs/release_schedule.html).

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting U.S. Census Bureau statistics that relate to current
events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining
and producing content for their respective audiences.

* Grammy Awards: February 4, 2024

* National Weatherperson's Day: February 5, 2024

* Lunar New Year: February 10, 2024

* Inventors' Day: February 11, 2024

                                                                                                   Page 5 of 9
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024

* Super Bowl LVIII: February 11, 2024

* Mardi Gras: February 13, 2024

* Oregon 165th Anniversary of Statehood (1859): February 14, 2024

* Valentine's Day: February 14, 2024

* Singles Awareness Day: February 15, 2024

* Presidents' Day: February 19, 2024

***

Recently Released

(Released since January 12, 2024)

Census Open Innovation Summit 2024 January 17-19

Summit 2024 brought together trailblazers in the government innovation space for important discussions about
technology, business investment and entrepreneurship, local government innovation, human-centered data and
more. Each session included leading data experts and community leaders, showcasing cross-sector collaboration
and federal-community partnership.

2020 Census

Census Bureau Announces Completion of 2020 Census Review Operations

January 24 -- The U.S. Census Bureau announced it has completed two operations that allowed governmental units
to seek review of their 2020 Census counts. The Census Bureau officially notified all participants of the Count
Question Resolution (CQR) and 2020 Post-Census Group Quarters Review (PCGQR) operations of review results
by January 3.

American Community Survey

2018-2022 American Community Survey 5-year Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) and Variance Replicate
Estimates

January 25 -- The 2018-2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-year Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS)
files were released through the ACS website, FTP site, and the microdata analysis tool on data.census.gov. The
ACS PUMS files enable data users to create custom estimates and tables that are not available through pre-
tabulated ACS data products. These data are available for the nation, regions, divisions, states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Public Use Microdata Areas (PUMAs).

The 2018-2022 ACS 5-year Variance Replicate Estimates were released through the ACS website
(https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/data/variance-tables.html)             and           FTP        site
(https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/replicate_estimates/2022/data/5-year/). These tables allow
advanced data users to calculate margins of error when collapsing data within a table or across geographies.

Release of Additional American Community Survey Selected Population Tables and American Indian and Alaska
Native Tables

January 25 -- Additional 2017-2021 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-Year Selected Population Tables (SPT)
and American Indian and Alaska Native Tables (AIANT) were released Thursday, January 25 to address over-
suppression for some groups and geographies within the original June 2023 release. Visit the Race, Ethnicity,
Ancestry and American Indian & Alaska Native Tables page (https://www.census.gov/programs-

                                                                                                        Page 6 of 9
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024

surveys/acs/data/race-aian.html) for more information about geographic area/group combinations that will be
receiving additional tabulations. The SPT and AIANT data products contain the greatest level of statistical detail for
detailed race, Hispanic origin, tribal and ancestry group populations.

2018-2022 American Community Survey 5-Year Citizen Voting Age by Race and Ethnicity Special Tabulation

January 23 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released the 2018-2022 American Community Survey 5-Year Citizen Voting
Age by Race and Ethnicity (CVAP) Special Tabulation. This special tabulation is created for use in voting rights
analysis and is published for a series of geographies, down to block-group level. Publication of this special
tabulation is only available for download from the Census Bureau Citizen Voting Age by Race and Ethnicity
webpage (https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/decennial-census/about/voting-rights/cvap.html).

Census Bureau Begins Posting Public Comments on Proposed Changes to 2025 American Community Survey

January 22 -- The U.S. Census Bureau has begun posting the public's feedback on proposed changes to the 2025
American Community Survey (ACS) and Puerto Rico Community Survey (PRCS) to regulations.gov. In October, the
Census Bureau published a Federal Register notice inviting the public to comment on proposed changes to the
survey covering several topics, including household roster, educational attainment, health insurance coverage,
disability and labor force questions.

Economic

2022 Economic Census First Look

January 25 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released first look estimates from the 2022 Economic Census. The
economic census is the U.S. government's official five-year measure of businesses in the United States. It provides
the most comprehensive business and economic data available at the national, state and local levels - and serves
as the benchmark for current economic activity, such as the Gross Domestic Product and Producer Price Index.

First-Look 2023 Annual Business Survey

January 25 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released an infographic and preliminary data from the Annual Business
Surveys (ABS), covering data year 2022. The infographic shows the profitability of employer businesses by race.
The preliminary data showed the financing practices for employer firms by sex, ethnicity, race, minority status and
veteran status. Data in the infographic and tables are shown for the percentage of employer businesses in 2022.
The ABS is conducted jointly by the U.S. Census Bureau and the National Center for Science and Engineering
Statistics (NCSES) within the National Science Foundation.

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

* Pandemic's Impact on Indoor and Outdoor Recreation Revenue (January 17)

* Improving Access to Funding for Indigenous Communities (January 12)

* MLK Day: Only Federal Holiday Designated as National Day of Service (January 11)

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting the Census Bureau's newsworthy statistics that
relate to current events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media
in story mining and producing content for their respective audiences.

* Mail Carrier Day: February 4, 2024

                                                                                                        Page 7 of 9
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024

* National Women Physicians Day: February 3, 2024

* Groundhog Day: February 2, 2024

* American Heart Month: February 2024

* National Spouses Day: January 26, 2024

* National Popcorn Day: January 19, 2024

* Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: January 15, 2024

* National Pharmacist Day: January 12, 2024

* National Milk Day: January 11, 2024

* National Hot Tea Month: January 2024

* National Poverty in America Awareness Month: January 2024

Blogs

2030 Census Planning: What 2024 Brings

Deborah Stempowski, Associate Director for Decennial Census Programs -- January 23 -- Happy New Year! As we
embark on a new year filled with possibilities, it's time to share exciting updates and innovations that will shape the
2030 Census. Conducting a census is an incredibly complex undertaking that takes years of planning, and we want
to keep you informed on our progress and thinking along the way.

Remembering Katherine Wallman

Written by: Robert L. Santos, Director -- January 22 -- With great sadness, we share the news of the passing of
Katherine Wallman, former Chief Statistician of the United States. As a longtime colleague and friend of Ms.
Wallman, I know firsthand her profound, positive impact on our federal statistical system - and indeed, on the field
of statistics as a whole. I feel privileged and so fortunate to have known and worked with her.

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources -- When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management
webpage (https://www.census.gov/topics/preparedness.html) for demographic and economic data on impacted
areas. Each disaster will include data from our key emergency management tools: OnTheMap for Emergency
Management, Community Resilience Estimates, Census Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition, and other
useful resources.

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community -- Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-
plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from
the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official information about America's people, businesses,
industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

* Atlanta

* Chicago

* Denver

* Los Angeles

* New York

                                                                                                   Page 8 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024

* Philadelphia

* All Surveys

* Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage
(https://www.census.gov/data/data-tools.html).

Census Geocoder -- Provides interactive & programmatic (REST) access to users interested in matching addresses
to geographic locations and entities containing those addresses.

EDA (Economic Development Administration)-Census Poverty Status Viewer -- This interactive tool measures high
poverty areas and persistent poverty counties using data from the American Community Survey, SAIPE, and
decennial census.

Migration Patterns: Young Adult Migration -- Use this resource to discover where people in your hometown moved
as young adults.

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities -- Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and
use Census Bureau statistics. These free sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate
Census Bureau databases and mapping tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national
level. Descriptions of upcoming sessions are available on our Census Academy webpage
(https://www.census.gov/data/academy/webinars/upcoming.html). Login details are provided at least one week
before a webinar.

* 2020 Census Race & Ethnicity Data: The Detailed DHC-B Proof of Concept (Monday, January 29, 3-4 p.m. EST)

* 2024 Commercial Outlook for Business, Bank and International Trade (Tuesday, January 30,3-4 p.m. EST)

* A Thematic Session on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Evidence from the * * Microdata (Wednesday, January 31,
2024, 1-2 p.m. EST)

* An Overview of Hispanics in America (Thursday, February 8, 2-3 p.m. EST)

* The Annual Business Survey and The Economic Census (Thursday, February 8, 2-3:30 p.m. EST)

* Studying Workers' Travel Patterns to Employment Centers Using Census Data (Wednesday, February 21, 1:30-
3:00 p.m. EST)

* Exploring the Diversity and Growth of the Asian American Population (Thursday, February 22, 2-3 p.m. EST)

* Comparing the American Community Survey to the Household Pulse Survey (Wednesday, February 28, 2-3 p.m.
EST)

Archived Training Resources

Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library (https://www.census.gov/data/academy/webinars.html) for
previously recorded, free training available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded
webinars, tutorials and other helpful materials.

***

Original text here: https://www.census.gov/newsroom/tip-sheets/2024/tp24-02.html

                                                                                     Page 9 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 2 - Jan. 26, 2024

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8474568 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: February 4, 2024


  
