

                                                                                           Page 1 of 14
     Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                     States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....




  Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing; The Posture of United States
 European Command and United States Transportation Command in review
   of the Defense Authorization Request for FY2025 and the Future Years
Defense Program.; Testimony by Jacqueline Van Ovost, Commander, United
                     States Transportation Command
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                             April 11, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. SENATE DOCUMENTS
Length: 9663 words

Body


U.S. Transportation Command's (USTRANSCOM) enduring purpose is to project and sustain combat power
whenever and wherever the United States chooses. Within the ever-changing strategic and operational landscape,
our logistics and mobility enterprise continues to play an integral role in assuring our Nation's defense, as well as
aiding leaders at all echelons to preserve time and create better options - a decision advantage. The 2022 National
Defense Strategy (NDS) envisions a future force as lethal, sustainable, resilient, survivable, agile, and responsive -
our logistics and mobility enterprises will meet this call. USTRANSCOM, its components, and its commercial
partners are advancing efforts in connectivity, data-driven decision-making, and creating options to support
integrated deterrence, campaigning efforts, and an enduring advantage for our joint force.

As one of eleven combatant commands, our warfighting team is a diverse force, composed of our component
commands, as well as a subordinate command, interagency, and commercial partners of the broader Joint
Deployment and Distribution Enterprise (JDDE) and the Joint Petroleum Enterprise (JPE). The entire enterprise
works together to move the right capabilities to the right place, at the right time. Our assigned Unified Command
Plan responsibilities are executed through three component commands (U.S. Army's Military Surface Deployment
and Distribution Command (SDDC), U.S. Navy's Military Sealift Command, and U.S. Air Force's Air Mobility
Command), and one subordinate command, the Joint Enabling Capabilities Command (JECC). Our key mobility
mission areas include sealift, strategic seaports, airports, air refueling, airlift, patient movement, domestic rail, global
bulk fuel management, and motor transport. The JDDE operates as a Total Force, harnessing the unique skills of
Active Duty, Reserve, National Guard, government civilians, contractors, and commercial industry teammates who
are vital to our ability to bolster warfighting readiness.

Annually, USTRANSCOM spends approximately 9.5 billion dollars in organic and commercial transportation
services to execute Department of Defense (DoD) mission requirements. The Transportation Working Capital Fund
(TWCF) is the lifeblood of USTRANSCOM's mission to deploy and sustain the joint force. TWCF fiscal resources
provide the agility necessary to rapidly respond to complex and unplanned operations. We have been below our

                                                                                          Page 2 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

cash thresholds for several years and are working closely with the Department to return the TWCF to our normal
boundaries while not hindering Services' buying power. An essential part of that solvency plan is to receive a
supplemental reimbursement for support to Israel. The TWCF has already expensed $172M for transportation costs
for Israel and projects total costs at $550M for FY24 as of 4 March 2024. The TWCF cannot absorb this amount
and requires reimbursement to ensure our ability to rapidly respond to emerging needs as requested in the
Administration's October 2023 supplemental appropriations request.

The DoD's ability to project military forces inextricably is linked to commercial industry, what we like to call our
fourth component. Our industry partners provide critical transportation capacity, petroleum infrastructure, global
networks, and contracts, to meet day-today and wartime requirements. USTRANSCOM also partners with other
U.S. Government Departments and Agencies, such as the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of
Transportation (DOT), especially the Maritime Administration (MARAD), who operates and maintains the
Government-owned sealift fleet. We also partner with the Federal Highway Administration and Federal Railroad
Administration within DOT to evaluate the readiness of key road and rail transportation networks to support defense
requirements, and we collaborate closely with other key logistics partners and Defense Transportation System
customers, including the Defense Logistics Agency, the General Services Administration, and U.S. Coast Guard, to
establish supportive policies and guide our efforts.

Where We Are - Strategic Environment

Strategic competition is a daily reality, and our Nation's competitors are maneuvering fluidly between conventional
and gray-zone activities. Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine, the Houthi attacks on international shipping in
the Red Sea, and Israel's ongoing conflict in Gaza confirms that this is still a "decisive decade." Mobility obstacles
exist at every step in the deployment and distribution process, from the homeland to the destination. The increasing
focus of foreign intelligence entities to map and penetrate the U.S. military/commercial logistics and critical
infrastructure systems requires an amplified, coordinated response from all Government counterintelligence
agencies. Over 85 percent of the Joint Force is in the Continental United States, and our mission of moving the
warfighter to the fight will continue to be threatened by competitors that are on a trajectory to present increasingly
challenging threats across multiple domains. We acknowledge that the homeland is not a sanctuary.

The President's National Security Strategy (NSS) makes clear that the People's Republic of China (PRC) and
Russia are working aggressively to undermine democracy and export a model of governance marked by repression
at home and coercion abroad. The PRC continues to refine and develop its means to contest American power
projection and sustainment operations in the Pacific. The PRC is carefully studying how the United States sustains
our Allies and partners in Europe and the Middle East during two of this century's most destabilizing conflicts.
Without question, the PRC has identified what they perceive to be our vulnerabilities and will attempt to exploit them
in a future crisis with the West.

In Europe, the war in Ukraine remains at the forefront. Moscow seeks to fracture Western unity and diminish our
resolve. Our sustainment operations, particularly crucial supplies of artillery and air defenses for Ukraine's military,
will remain a vital lifeline for them. Of note, the war strengthened Russia and PRC ties, as well as ties between
Russia and the DPRK, and they view their deepened relationship as a strong counterbalance to the United States.

The Middle East is one of our most enduring security and stability challenges. Iran and its threat network pose risk
to sustainment operations throughout the region. Recently, we have witnessed numerous attacks on our facilities in
Iraq and Syria. The ongoing war between Israel and Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiya (Hamas) is a powerful
reminder of the highly unpredictable nature of conflict in the region. The character of this violence and instability
guarantees that we must remain prepared to conduct mobility and sustainment operations in this volatile part of the
world with almost no warning. We must assure Israel and our other Middle East partners that we can, and will,
move decisively and rapidly when and where we are needed to protect our interests in the region.

                                                                                          Page 3 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

Furthermore, regional instability in places such as Africa, Central and Latin America, as well as transborder issues
like natural disasters and pandemics, will continue to challenge the Joint Force and create formidable hurdles for
USTRANSCOM.

The JDDE is accustomed to sustaining forward-deployed forces across largely uncontested environments. Logistics
realities are changing and the JDDE cannot presume it will enjoy similar freedom of maneuver to execute
operations with full access to our lines of communication on the ground, in the air, and at sea. The PRC has
developed a sophisticated cyber capability for collection and attack and expanded its electronic warfare and counter
space capabilities to degrade our Command and Control. The PRC has fielded hypersonic missiles like those used
by Russia in Ukraine. These long-range weapons threaten our ports, fuel storage sites, stockpiles, warehouses,
and marshalling areas throughout the Pacific. Additionally, mass drone attacks can overwhelm the battlefield and
have caught the world's attention -from Russia using Iranian Shahed drones against Ukraine, to terrorist groups
using one way attack drones in the Middle East as seen in the Bab-el-Mandeb strait. Air power is now available to
any actor who has the means and will to challenge us.

Our Nation's strategic network of Allies and partners provides capacity, logistical capabilities, intelligence, and
Access, Basing and Overflight (ABO) agreements that empower the United States to compete successfully against
global challenges. Assured access to and through foreign nations is cultivated through sustained engagement and
agreements with our Allies, partners, and geographic combatant commands. This network of Allies and partners
enables assured force projection and freedom of maneuver, reducing the challenges associated with maintaining
operational reach over extended distances. This can be seen in action during OPERATION PROSPERITY
GUARDIAN, which saw collaboration between United States Naval Forces Central Command, U.S. Central
Command (USCENTCOM), USTRANSCOM and an international coalition protecting the free flow of commerce
through the Red Sea.

The JDDE relies on the diverse and expansive capacity of global infrastructure, both government-owned and
commercially owned and operated, to deliver an immediate force tonight and a decisive force when needed. We
intend to make our supporting systems more resilient and agile in the face of tomorrow's peer threats to preserve
operational capability and protect key systems. The collective influence of our enterprise and Nation to shape the
strategic environment can provide competitive advantage, senior leadership decision space, and complicate the
decision matrix of any potential adversary.

Where We Are Going

In the decades after World War II, most transportation and logistics activities have been conducted in uncontested
environments, however, the strategic environment has changed dramatically. We must grow our capabilities to
ensure that logistics never becomes the weak link. We will set the conditions for a strategic environment where the
JDDE can project and sustain the Joint Force, at the time and place of the Nation's choosing, under persistent, all
domain attack.

Our competitors' threats are real and the imperative to change is urgent. This decisive decade demonstrates the
importance of the NDS's priorities of defending the United States homeland; deterring strategic attacks against the
United States, Allies, and partners; deterring aggression and being prepared to prevail; and building a resilient Joint
Force and defense ecosystem. USTRANSCOM's capabilities will be the engine that propels the NDS, underwriting
the Joint Warfighting Concept, ensuring the viability of deterrence operations, and providing our national leadership
with strategic flexibility.

The command will enable our national priorities through the NDS's strategic ways of Integrated Deterrence,
Campaigning, and Building Enduring Advantages. By nesting our strategic priorities and campaign objectives within
the NDS framework, USTRANSCOM is focused on ensuring the JDDE is effectively postured to accomplish its
mission when called upon.

Integrated Deterrence is predicated on making the adversary doubt they can achieve their objectives. It requires
working seamlessly across domains and theaters, and leveraging our unmatched network of Allies and Partners, in

                                                                                          Page 4 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

order to demonstrate capability and will. USTRANSCOM remains laser-focused on projecting and sustaining the
Joint Force by cultivating robust global mobility posture and credible strategic capacity. Strengthening relationships
with Allies, partners, and commercial industry continues to expand friendly access, basing, and overflight, thus
creating positional advantage across all domains. Maintaining ready, credible capacity through recapitalization,
modernization, and a robust multi-national exercise schedule maintains our global power-projection capability while
demonstrating collective resolve. When used in concert, posture and capacity provide a true asymmetric and
strategic advantage for the Nation.

Campaigning includes the Globally Integrated Exercise, Pacific Pathways, Keen Edge, and other joint exercises
that put a premium on closing operational gaps to strengthen deterrence and develop new concepts to prevail.
Large-scale exercises, fleet readiness activations, and focused wargames will enhance logistics interoperability and
trust across the Joint Force, with Allies, partners, and the commercial industry.

Building Enduring Advantages begins by addressing critical vulnerabilities and accelerating force development.
Investing in and hardening a resilient defense ecosystem will strengthen our commercial and military transportation
and bulk fuel management networks across multiple domains. These investments will modernize our forces for
increased agility, survivability, and battle space awareness in a contested environment. We expect disruption to our
operations and are focused on cyber mission assurance and digital modernization to ensure our ability to conduct
globally integrated command and control, and to generate decision advantage. With significant volumes of data and
advanced analytics, we expect to posture efficiently, recover quickly, and accelerate our decision advantage.

Finally, our people will make the difference between victory and defeat. We acknowledge the challenges present
today and continue to develop our warfighting team with a competitive mindset. By embracing the imperative to be
ready now and in the future, our people understand the mission and are continually adapting to maintain our
Nation's competitive advantage in power projection.

How We Will Get There - Warfighting Framework

USTRANSCOM is focused on shaping and directing the capabilities and concepts necessary to operate in future
contested environments, which will include multi modal solutions for transloading cargo, fuel, and personnel,
including patients, between commercial and military capacity and delivering the last tactical mile. Our analysis goes
beyond the mobility platforms and integrates key warfighting functions, current wartime demands, and future
concepts entailing maneuver and distributed operations. We have advanced significantly in our analytic framework
to better conduct globally integrated mobility operations, manage global bulk fuel delivery, and synchronize our
Global Mobility Posture, Global Mobility Capacity, and Global Command, Control, and Integration. These critical
elements create USTRANSCOM's warfighting framework through which we carry out our missions.

Global Mobility Posture

The foundation of USTRANSCOM's power projection mission is our Global Mobility Posture. Domestic agreements
and diplomatic alignment with our Allies and partners enable a globally distributed and scalable logistics network
capable of the rapidly deploying personnel and equipment at the time and place of our choosing. This requires a
whole-of-government approach to solidify and amplify our established nodes and routes. These dense layers of
contacts and contracts - both military and commercial - are critical to rapidly advance our national security interests,
deter adversaries, and when necessary, win decisively. While this provides the United States a comparative
advantage, we must continually strengthen and diversify our global basing, infrastructure, and agreements to
maintain this advantage, especially as new concepts and operations drive us to evolve.

Deterrence and our ability to project and sustain the Joint Force begins in the homeland. Domestically,
USTRANSCOM works closely with the DOT on numerous transportation programs including three National Defense
Programs: Highways, Railroads, and Ports for National Defense. Although USTRANSCOM assesses that our
Nation's infrastructure is currently capable of supporting military transportation requirements, substantial public and
private sector investment is needed to sustain the current transportation infrastructure. For sea transportation we
rely on a collection of DoD and commercially owned U.S. Strategic Seaports. The Strategic Seaport Program

                                                                                          Page 5 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

ensures the DoD has access to sufficient seaport infrastructure to meet the Nation's objectives. Military Ocean
Terminal Concord (MOTCO), on the West Coast, is the sole strategic ammunition seaport serving the Indo-Pacific
region. With our U.S. Army Component, SDDC, we have identified the need for significant investments in MOTCO
to facilitate the safe handling of ammunition and to mitigate the effects of climate change. At Military Ocean
Terminal Sunny Point on the East Coast, major enabling infrastructure components are approaching the end of
useful life and must be replaced to allow the terminal to meet ammunition throughput requirements. We continue to
work with the Department of the Army to preserve and modernize both seaports to reduce risk and prevent
capability gaps.

Assured access to and through foreign nations may be incorporated into virtually any type of agreement, ranging
from an exchange of Diplomatic Notes to a comprehensive Mutual Defense Treaty or Defense Cooperation
Agreement of indefinite duration. The reciprocal exchange of Logistic Support, Supplies, and Services, including
airlift, sealift, air refueling, and related services, is usually addressed in Acquisition and Cross Servicing
Agreements (ACSAs) with Allies, partners, and international organizations. USTRANSCOM has the authority to
negotiate and conclude function- or event-specific ACSA Implementing Arrangements with Allies, partners, and
international organizations. For treaties, protection agreements, services agreements, ABO agreements, diplomatic
notes, and implementing arrangements, USTRANSCOM relies on each geographical combatant command to
initiate negotiations, working closely with the Department of State, and conclude agreements with host nations
within their areas of responsibility (AORs).

USTRANSCOM also participates with geographic combatant commanders in other host nations' and regional
alliances' infrastructure planning that could be beneficial to our command's mobility mission. For instance, the
interface between U.S. European Command's (USEUCOM) development of theater posture and North Atlantic
Treaty Organization's (NATO) efforts to provide capabilities necessary for its war planning provides USTRANSCOM
visibility on NATO-built or planned infrastructure possibly available for the command's deployment and distribution
mission.

Finally, USTRANSCOM engages with Allies and partners through its Security Cooperation program. This program
promotes interoperability with partner nations and requires persistent engagement with the Security Cooperation
Functional Community. Tools used for engagement include forums, information sharing, exercises and wargames,
key leader engagements, participation in lift-sharing consortiums, Mobility Support Advisory Squadrons, and the
Aerial Refueling Systems Advisory Group.

Global Mobility Capacity

Our capacity includes sealift, air refueling, airlift, patient movement, rail, motor transport, bulk fuel, and the ability to
fully mobilize the Total Force at the time and point of need. Our commercial partners provide significant mobility
capacity; however, integrated planning is critical to ensure conditions are set to best enable successful Civil
Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF), Voluntary Intermodal Sealift Agreement (VISA), and Voluntary Tanker Agreement (VTA)
operations. Our available capacity, including emergency preparedness programs, continues to represent a credible
option for delivering fuel, munitions, personnel, and materiel or evacuating patients - regardless of the environment.

In August 2023, USTRANSCOM completed the 2023 Mobility White Paper that assessed the capability and
associated risk in meeting warfighting demands as outlined in the 2022 National Defense Strategy. The study
emphasized that ensuring sufficient and credible strategic airlift capacity (C-17 and C-5), continuous modernization
of our air refueling aircraft (KC-135 and KC-46), and sustained recapitalization of our mobility lift platforms
(RO/ROs, airlift, and air refueling) is critical to ensure USTRANSCOM can continue to project and sustain the Joint
Force. The organic sealift fleet is currently sufficient to meet wartime needs at an acceptable level of risk, but an
aging fleet makes recapitalization an urgent priority. The air refueling fleet remains increasingly challenged in terms
of threat-driven basing, increasing joint force demands, and adversary actions complicating air refueling output.
USTRANSCOM has worked with the US Air Force to continue funding over the long term to replace aging aircraft to
sustain fleet capacity while pursuing critical modernization efforts. The strategic airlift fleet of 275 aircraft (223 C-17
and 52 C-5M aircraft) remains vital to rapid global mobility. Recent mobility studies validated our current strategic

                                                                                          Page 6 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

airlift capacity is sufficient at elevated risk but will be stressed to meet wartime requirements. Low readiness is a
key concern across the airlift and air refueling fleets; failure to maintain the current fleets or to modernize them to
improve survivability in an increasingly contested logistics environment will lead to diminished mobility capacity. The
theater airlift fleet of 271 C-130 aircraft is heavily stressed to meet the demand for globally integrated plans, which
include transload movement from commercial aircraft, time-sensitive movement of forces and supplies, and
battlefield aeromedical evacuation (AE).

Long, contested lines of communications, and the tyranny of distance with a distributed footprint in the Indo-Pacific
region, present challenges for the JDDE to project, maneuver, and sustain the Joint Force. Analysis highlights a
tight coupling between intra-theater airlift and sealift assets required to maneuver and sustain fielded forces given
the scarcity of ground lines of communication. Increased investment in theater sealift is needed. Absent sufficient
shallow-draft sealift vessels and bulk fuel tankers, mobility requirements shift to intra-theater airlift, exacerbating
significant demands already levied on the airlift fleet. The challenges of satisfying competing, simultaneous
demands across significant distances at increasing velocity are compounded by an increasingly contested
operational environment. This places a premium on the credibility of our capacity: ready, capable mobility forces
prepared to scale from campaigning to crisis and ensure global power projection requirements are met.

Connectivity is foundational to the air mobility enterprise's ability to project, maneuver, and sustain the Joint Force.
Without it, our air mobility fleets will continue to lack the battlespace awareness necessary to survive in the
increasingly complex and contested operational environment projected in conflict against a peer adversary.
Connectivity is vital to the credibility of our air mobility capacity, and our ability to meet joint force demands at the
time and place of our choosing. After decades of operations in permissive environments, our air mobility fleets lack
the ability to leverage current and future Air Force and Joint Battle Networks, leaving them blind to friend and foe
alike. Our asymmetric advantage to globally project and sustain power on demand depends on air mobility to
demonstrate our readiness and national will - in crisis or conflict - at relevant velocity and mass. Successful
prosecution of this mission is a strategic imperative: it relies on the survivability of our air mobility enterprise, for
which battlespace awareness is a pre-requisite, and unachievable without connectivity. This is an issue of utmost
consequence; I fully support Air Mobility Command's efforts to rapidly connect its fleets.

Global Command, Control, and Integration

Malign actors in cyberspace pose a real and persistent threat to USTRANSCOM systems. Our global enterprise of
transportation and logistics services depends on the connectivity these networks provide. Global Command,
Control, and Integration is the exercise of authority and direction to plan, coordinate, synchronize and control
operations at-echelon. Expanding vulnerabilities due to data saturation, demand fast and informed decision making
at an unprecedented scale and scope. Indeed, the rapidly changing character of war means that turning data into
decisions more quickly and accurately than our adversaries is our new center of gravity. As USTRANSCOM
transforms into a data-centric organization, we have partnered with the DoD Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence
Office to strengthen our ability to treat data as a strategic product, becoming a data-driven organization with the
capabilities, tools, and culture to gather and analyze information for better business and operational decisions.

Cyber resiliency and digital modernization enable our ability to conduct globally integrated command and control,
generate decision advantage, enhance response actions to threats posed by cyber adversaries, and reduce
vulnerabilities across the JDDE.

USTRANSCOM's contribution to daily campaigning and wartime power projection, inherent in integrated
deterrence, stems from connecting the three elements in the command's mobility warfighting framework: (1) global
mobility posture through a robust network surface infrastructure and nearly 90 key enroute international airfields
and seaports in 44 host nations for access, basing, and overflight, (2) credible global mobility capacity leveraging
both organic and commercial assets for strategic airlift, sealift, air refueling, theater airlift, aeromedical evacuation,
and enablers for end-to-end connectivity, and (3) global command and control and integration of all elements
necessary to rapidly align scarce mobility resources to meet the DoD's highest priorities. USTRANSCOM is
investing resources and leadership focus to adapt to the operational environment's changing conditions. Our goal is

                                                                                          Page 7 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

to be able to sustain mission outcomes under attack and recover rapidly from disruptions that adversaries hope will
impair our command's role in global logistics. The implementation of Zero Trust principles remains foundational to
ensuring we can execute our mission, especially as we drive toward our objective of "TRANSCOM Anywhere"
providing operational, reliable, scalable, and secure access on-demand everywhere and at all times.

In addition to our internal initiatives and as is the case with most organizations, USTRANSCOM is dependent upon
numerous external capability providers. A key example with profound impact on USTRANSCOM's ability to
maintain effective command and control while operating globally are the space-based intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance, satellite communications and positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities provided by the

Intelligence Community, Services and USSPACECOM. To meet our global operations demands, the DoD must
procure Satellite Communications (SATCOM) as an enterprise system -- from on-orbit down to the ground segment
and warfighter terminals. To win in a multi-domain fight, future SATCOM systems must have improved system
resilience, on-orbit endurance through refueling and extended maneuverability, and improved environmental
situational awareness. Essentially, the systems need to be able to detect and respond to both natural and
adversarial threats. To provide navigation and positioning information central to effective command and control,
USTRANSCOM fully recommends that the services are allocated appropriate funding for acquisition of military
signal (M-code) enabled receivers to ensure connectivity to the Global Positioning System (GPS) capabilities that
are critical to the warfighter's effectiveness. This funding will allow the services to operate in a GPS contested
environment and meet congressional directives in the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act.

Finally, and continuing the theme of coordination with external capability providers, USTRANSCOM is
strengthening partnerships with our transportation service providers to mitigate cyber vulnerabilities and increase
resiliency. Last year marked the sixth year of contractually requiring our transportation service providers to conduct
annual cybersecurity selfassessments to track compliance with the National Institute of Standards and Technology
security guidelines. We are increasing information-sharing and collaboration initiatives with our commercial
partners, to include no-cost tools and services available from various government agencies, such as the National
Security Agency, and Department of Homeland Security's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.

Year in Review

Last year, USTRANSCOM continued to demonstrate the positive impact a dedicated logistics combatant command
can have on global operations. In FY23, USTRANSCOM delivered over 289,000 passengers and over 330,000
short tons (STONs) by airlift, over 13.1 million square feet of cargo by sealift, and conducted 5,518 patient
movements, outpacing our FY22 operations. USTRANSCOM's logistical prowess remains on full display as we
balance the rigors of our global mission.

In 2023, USTRANSCOM delivered more than 325 million pounds of security assistance equipment to Ukraine,
resulting in more than 650 million pounds total delivered since the command began this effort in January 2022.
USTRANSCOM delivered $9 million worth of Department of Energy equipment to the embattled nation early in the
year to reinforce and reconstitute its critical power grid infrastructure, as well as more than 250 air defense systems
and 2,800 missiles in defense of Ukrainian population centers. Eight Armored vehicle bridges, 78 breaching
vehicles, 341 personnel-carrying vehicles, 33 tanks, and more than 1.1 million artillery rounds - combined with
Allied and partner nation donations - have allowed the Ukrainian Armed Forces to maintain battlefield parity across
a wide front. USTRANSCOM continues to expedite high-priority equipment to the point of need while also balancing
security assistance requirements within the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM) and USCENTCOM
AORs.

The command also supported USINDOPACOM's Operation PACIFIC PATHWAYS 23 (OP23), encompassing 13
exercises in eight countries, by transporting over 660,000 square feet of cargo aboard four Ready Reserve Force
(RRF) vessels. In support of OP23, we transported over 2,100 personnel and 800 STONS of cargo via organic and
commercial aircraft into the region. Our support to USINDOPACOM highlights our interconnectedness with the

                                                                                          Page 8 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

command and enhances our relationships with Allies and partners, enabling the United States to counter the PRC
influence in the region and exercise our capability to surge sealift.

USTRANSCOM remains postured to surge in the event of crisis in support of all combatant commands. In U.S.
Africa Command and USEUCOM, we transported 2,000 passengers and 2,500 STONs in support of multiple crises.
In February, we supported our NATO ally the Republic of Turkiye with humanitarian assistance and disaster aid in
response to the 7.8 magnitude earthquake. In April, we supported the military assisted departure of our Department
of State teammates in Sudan. Finally, following the coup in Niger, USTRANSCOM delivered critical support to
counter violent extremist operations in the Sahel region. We project and sustain the Joint Force, and our Allies and
partners, at the speed of need.

USTRANSCOM, as directed in the Unified Command Plan, is the sole provider, through the Joint Enabling
Capabilities Command, of rapidly deployable Joint enabling capability packages of communications, planning, and
public affairs. This force enables combatant commanders to rapidly establish Joint Task Force Headquarters that
exercise command and control in crisis and contingency. In FY23 the JECC deployed multiple small teams with a
total of 47 communicators, planners, and public affairs professionals in support of Security Assistance Group-
Ukraine, Joint Task Force-Red Hill defuel operations, DHS Southwest Border Operations, and the crisis in Niger. As
we began FY24, the JECC rapidly deployed the same capabilities at home and abroad in response to the Israel's
war against Hamas. In addition to crisis response, the JECC provided over 21,000 man-days in support to Joint and
service exercises, Joint capability development initiatives, and Joint strategic planning efforts primarily focused on
the pacing challenge.

Throughout FY23, USTRANSCOM conducted extensive global operations, delivering over 86.2 million gallons of
fuel during air refueling missions, which resupplied over 49,000 receiver aircraft on over 26,000 missions (31,779
sorties). Furthermore, USTRANSCOM supported 42 bomber task force missions, reassuring our partners across all
six theaters, and reminding adversaries how quickly we can project combat power. These missions in the
USINDOPACOM and USEUCOM AORs displayed combat credibility and furthered multilateral integration, ABO
efforts, and deterrence. USTRANSCOM also supported multiple fighter aircraft movements and intelligence,
surveillance, reconnaissance support missions for USINDOPACOM, USEUCOM, and USCENTCOM solidifying our
global campaign plan and signaling support to our Allies and partners.

Risk Mitigation Efforts

Proactive mobility recapitalization efforts are crucial for us to effectively operate in a future contested logistics
environment. USTRANSCOM's assessment of mobility sufficiency under the NDS found our current mobility
capacity sufficient, but at increased levels of risk due to the focused and persistent efforts of our adversaries. Risk
is further heightened by an erosion of readiness and capacity in key mobility areas.

National Maritime Strategy

We appreciate and encourage the efforts to develop a national maritime strategy. Our pacing challenge, the PRC,
has not only developed a robust maritime strategy, but their strategy also seeks to dominate the maritime industry
world-wide enhancing both economic and national security advantages. It is estimated that the PRC has controlling
stakes in 96 foreign ports in 53 countries; the PRC builds 100 times the number of ocean-going vessels as
compared to the

United States, makes 80 percent of ship-to-shore cranes used in the United States and produces 85 percent of the
world's shipping containers. Additionally, the PRC invests $132 billion in subsidies for shipping and shipbuilding.
The PRC is militarizing its merchant marine force, not only to compete with Western powers, but also to dominate
maritime activity in the Pacific. I echo the sentiments of Secretary of the Navy Del Toro where he argues, "no great
naval power has ever existed without also being a dominant commercial maritime power, encompassing both
shipbuilding and global shipping... It is imperative that we take decisive action to reclaim America's position as a
leading maritime power."

                                                                                           Page 9 of 14
     Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                     States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

USTRANSCOM is collaborating with the Center for Naval Analysis and MARAD on a study that will inform a U.S.
National Maritime Strategy. This is a whole of government strategy that should be coordinated, staffed, and issued
from the highest level of government and endorsed by the National Security Council.

Sealift

One of my highest concerns is the reduction in capacity and readiness in the organic RRF. Our organic sealift fleet
and commercial transportation partners must continue to present credible deterrence and require proactive efforts
to recapitalize and modernize. Seventeen of the 47 ships are 50 years old or older, with the oldest being 56 years
old. Therefore, USTRANSCOM supports the Navy's strategy to recapitalize the government-owned fleet by
acquiring foreign-built used sealift vessels from the commercial market and further requests to provide the
Secretary of Defense discretionary authority to purchase foreign built ships to expeditiously replace the aging ships
under more favorable market conditions. This includes removing the overall limit on the number of used sealift
vessels DoD can procure, currently authorized at nine ships. We acknowledge Congress' intent to include domestic
new build sealift ships to recapitalize the RRF and look forward to plans from the Navy and MARAD that will
complement the Buy Used program and expeditiously renew the fleet. We are already a generation late in
recapitalizing a ready sealift fleet to meet our national objectives.

Working with MARAD, we have purchased two used RO/RO vessels and three used roll-on/container ships with
over one million useful square feet capacity. However, the process must be accelerated to keep pace with the
retirement schedule. To maintain sealift capacity and preserve sealift readiness, we are advocating to accelerate
used vessel purchases and to continually refine the current retirement plan to manage risk within program
resources.

Furthermore, we will remain a strong advocate for continued funding for secure communications capabilities to
support the organic RRF. Continued Navy and MARAD investment in secure data and voice communications
capabilities will enhance our ability to Command and Control our organic sealift in the most challenging
environments. Additional investment is required to field and sustain comparable secure communications capabilities
to support our commercial partners in sufficient quantities to meet the demands of contested operations, and to
ensure the entire logistics enterprise remains fully capable into the future.

The VISA and the VTA, together with their complementary peacetime programs the Maritime Security Program
(MSP) and Tanker Security Program (TSP) provide assured access to a fleet of U.S. flagged sustainment sealift
vessels and product tankers for use during armed conflict or national emergency. The recently implemented TSP
ensures we have access to industry fuel distribution capabilities for defense needs. Together with MARAD, we
successfully awarded the initial ten operating agreements with a primary focus on support to underway refueling of
the U.S. Navy's combat fleet. Though not yet appropriated, the FY 23 NDAA authorized the expansion of TSP from
10 to 20 vessels. We are working with MARAD and industry partners and intend to target shallow draft tanker
vessels to address intra-theater bulk fuel distribution in the Indo-Pacific.

In addition to the TSP, we fully support the MSP which provides the DoD with assured access to 60 U.S flag sealift
vessels. The RRF, the TSP and the MSP are pivotal to enhancing global readiness and safeguarding our nation's
supply chains. These sealift programs underscore our nation's steadfast commitment to national security and
economic stability and exemplify the indispensable partnership between MARAD and USTRANSCOM, and
industry.

The Merchant Marines

The U.S. maritime industry is confronting manpower shortages that create a national security risk. Merchant
Mariner readiness requires continued assessment to ensure an adequately trained supply of merchant mariners to
crew our surge fleet while minimizing impacts to commercial industry. USTRANSCOM and Military Sealift
Command depend on the U.S.-flag merchant marine fleet, with the security benefits of American crews, to move
sensitive defense materials. Unfortunately, due to a confluence of factors including complications from the COVID-

                                                                                         Page 10 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

19 pandemic, the workforce is shrinking. We look forward to the outcomes of the recently started, congressionally
mandated, Merchant Mariner Workforce Working Group to find means to mitigate and possibly reverse trends.

We are encouraged by MARAD's efforts to collaboratively identify issues, potential solutions, and support a whole-
of-government approach to address this national security matter. We will employ Navy Reserve tactical advisors on
commercial vessels when appropriate and expand our consolidated cargo capability. This will include providing
regular training opportunities to expand mariner proficiency in consolidated cargo operations and utilize multimodal
solutions to deliver across dispersed locations in compressed timelines.

Air Refueling

The air refueling fleet remains our most stressed fleet under wartime conditions. It is critical to rapid global mobility
and is the lifeblood of the Joint Force's ability to deploy and employ the immediate and surge forces across all NDS
mission areas including the Department's top priorities--defense of the homeland and strategic deterrence. Credible
air refueling capacity must simultaneously cover multiple high priority global demands, which causes daily and
wartime concerns within the current air refueling fleet. With the last of the KC-10 aircraft being retired, the
programmed air refueling fleet of 466 total aircraft will consist of the KC-135 and the KC-46.

When the last KC-46 on contract is accepted into the Air Force, the average age of the remaining KC-135s will be
67 years old, emphasizing the need for continued recapitalization and investment in the Next Generation Air-
Refueling System (NGAS). While USTRANSCOM is solution-agnostic, the nature of global demand continues to
emphasize the time and space aspect of the problem, requiring sufficient booms and drogues in the air at any given
time to meet the significant number of simultaneous requirements.

It is critical that the Air Force continues to modernize the KC-135 and invest in the NGAS to maintain credible
capacity and provide the persistent connectivity, improved survivability, and increased agility necessary to operate
in future contested environments. Strategic Airlift

The combined output of both the C-17 and C-5M fleets is necessary and consequential with no replacement
capability on the horizon. Fiscal reality indicates that constraints on availability of the significant resources
necessary to develop a Next Generation Airlift aircraft, or C-X, will limit our ability to replace the C-5M until at least
the 2040s; therefore, sustaining these platforms into the 2040s is a national security imperative. Strategic airlift is a
unique U.S. capability, necessary to implement our NDS requirement to rapidly execute and sustain power
projection globally. The distances required to face our pacing challenge in the Pacific warrant velocity at scale and
our strategic airlift fleet provides that advantage. Our capacity is significant, with 275 C-17 and C-5M aircraft
producing only approximately 10 percent less output than the Desert Storm fully mobilized fleets, despite a 30
percent decrement in aircraft over that same period.

The C-5M fleet is challenged by maintenance issues that makes its availability constrained to confront the scale and
tempo required for near-peer combat operations in the Pacific. USTRANSCOM applauds efforts by the Air Force to
enhance this critical asset's reliability which will enhance availability for wartime requirements.

Modernizing the airlift enterprise to deliver, maneuver, and sustain the Joint Force against a peer adversary at
relevant velocity and location means prioritizing connectivity, which directly enhances battlespace awareness and
thus survivability. Improving threat-agnostic selfdefense will reduce the potential for attrition while enhancing our
ability to dynamically apply appropriate airlift capabilities to emergent demands across a spectrum of increasingly
contested operational environments. For example, when supporting Israel in their ongoing war with Hamas that
started last Fall, C-17s were prominent in the movement of critical materials and humanitarian support as the C-17
was the most suitable platform for those missions. What was unseen was the increased use of C-5Ms at the same
time. When put to the test under these surge conditions in 2023, the C-5M fleet doubled the number of normal daily
missions and the operational reliability improved. Nevertheless, had the US been in direct conflict with a peer
adversary during that time, mission accomplishment would be severely challenged without secure connectivity and
battlespace awareness.

                                                                                          Page 11 of 14
     Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                     States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

Underpinned by national policy, our ability to leverage commercial partnerships to rapidly expand capacity by
hundreds of aircraft for both cargo and passenger airlift is a necessary and cost-effective way to meet national
defense needs. Our commercial partners remain a critical element of our strategic airlift capacity. While both cargo
and passenger carriers continue to fully subscribe to the CRAF program, sufficient organic capacity remains
paramount based on an inability to utilize civil assets in projected contested environments.

Intra-Theater Airlift

Intra-Theater airlift is critical to sustaining and supporting the force to meet time-sensitive and mission critical
requirements for cargo and passengers. Consistent with previous budget cycles and the FY23 NDAA, the
President's Budget for Fiscal Year 2025 maintains a fleet of 271 C-130 aircraft across the Future Years Defense
Program, which USTRANSCOM supports with elevated risk. C-130s provide airlift support necessary to operate
within any theater to support a sizeable, deployed force engaged in combat operations. Future Joint and Service
operating concepts entail the maneuvering of forces across long distances and sustaining of forces across broadly
distributed operating locations, which elevates demands for IntraTheater lift. Lack of theater sealift shifts demand to
theater airlift, which in turn increases demand on strategic airlift. The interconnectedness of multimodal theater and
strategic lift is foundational to global force projection, maneuver, and sustainment.

USTRANSCOM's ability to command and control mobility forces, to include C-130s, is contingent on secure
networks and continuous IT and platform modernization efforts to retain the advantages needed in the cyber and
space domains.

Patient Movement

With constrained resources and the contested logistics environment, we are at risk meeting Global Patient
Movement (PM) requirements in conflict. Innovation and mitigation efforts can only reduce this risk so much.
Fundamentally, our forces are not ready, postured, or scaled to optimize these limited strategic assets. PM is an
integral function of the JDDE and provides essential support to the geographic combatant commanders. The ability
to move wounded, ill, and injured service members to lifesaving care emboldens our Commanders, reduces
negative outcomes, and decreases risk to force and mission. The casualty evacuation estimates in current planning
scenarios demonstrate the volume of patients requiring evacuation every week during a future peer or near-peer
conflict will exceed the total of patients moved in FY23. In FY23, USTRANSCOM conducted 5,518 patient
movements, comprised of 3,809 individual patients and eight battle injured patients. The foundation of PM remains
the AE system. With our strong partnership with the Air Force, we have increased qualified AE crews and critical
care air transport teams. While doctrinally, the Air Force executes "care in the air," the PM enterprise should not be
mistaken as an Air Force-only mission. A Joint Force effort is required to increase capacity through the en-route
care system. The continuum of patient care must be emphasized to increase survivability, to include initial medical
response, forward medical resuscitation and stabilization, integrated theater casualty movement, and prolonged
casualty care capacity. In addition, we must leverage our Allies and partners for large scale combat operations and
continue development of a joint, multimodal approach to PM. The entirety of the Military Health System must make
an exhaustive effort to eliminate traditional Military Service and functional boundaries and utilize all available
resources to preserve American lives and our fighting force. We will continue to broadcast the risk to conduct end to
end PM for expediency in funding decisions.

Global Bulk Fuel Management and Delivery

The appointment of USTRANSCOM as the Single Manager for Global Bulk Fuel Management and Delivery
(GBFMD) has already resulted in positive progress towards closing acknowledged strategic gaps in the DoD bulk
fuel supply chain since the command achieved Initial Operational Capability on 1 February 2023. Over the past
year, in collaboration with our key partners in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, DLA Energy, and the Joint
Staff, we have led the Department to synchronize bulk fuel planning, posture, operations, and capabilities
development to ensure assured end-to-end distribution of bulk fuel to project and sustain the Joint Force in a near-
peer fight.

                                                                                         Page 12 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

USTRANSCOM is utilizing a holistic approach across the Joint Petroleum Enterprise to close strategic gaps. Some
of these cross-agency initiatives include increasing maritime tanker capacity and establishing fuel afloat storage in
the Indo-Pacific, as well as operationalizing the Tanker Security Program. Additionally, our command developed
new wartime fuel modeling and assessments to better understand the fuel requirements behind the toughest
strategic problem sets facing our nation. Furthermore, we implemented new command and control concepts and
structures across our combatant commands to facilitate decision advantage and global prioritization. These are just
a few examples of how USTRANSCOM is leading the Joint Petroleum Enterprise to deliver positive change today
and ensure the Department is postured to win a contested environment.

Over the next 12 months our focus will continue to align the Department towards closure of identified gaps in
assured access to shallow draft maritime tanker capacity, increased integration of allied and partner nation
capabilities, enhanced collaboration with industry, and an enterprise-level resilient and integrated bulk fuel data
architecture to ensure the Department can provide increased options at the pace and tempo required in a high-end
fight. USTRANSCOM is postured to leverage every opportunity available to continue closing strategic gaps and
ensure we have the capacity and distribution capabilities needed to ensure our national objectives are met. Joint
Communications Support Element Modernization Program

As a subordinate element of USTRANSCOM's JECC, the Joint Communications Support Element (JCSE) is the
only joint communications organization in DoD that supports the conventional force. Its Modernization Program
executes tri-service procurement funding for lifecycle recapitalization of JCSE's equipment to meet emergent
combatant commander's operational mission requirements and the joint force's evolving tactical mission
communication demands. Current initiatives include modernizing tactical high frequency radio systems, commercial
cloud services, supporting Allies and partner interoperability, and developing communications diversity and
resilience by incorporating cellular, terrestrial Internet, and high throughput commercial satellite terminals. JCSE,
through the JECC, is working closely with Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Office's Global Information
Dominance Experiment to operationalize the tactical edge aspects of Combined Joint All Domain Command and
Control Concept and is heavily involved in Mission Partner Environment development. For a relatively small
investment, this Modernization Program provides the DoD tremendous value as it enables JCSE to rapidly prove
concepts and technologies in support ofjoint warfighters, assist in the resolution of service capability gaps, and to
be effective at the point of crisis.

Defense Personal Property Program (DP3)

Our Defense Personal Property Program team continues to move forward in transforming how DoD provides
moving services to customers. Service members, DoD civilians, and their families are our most critical asset, and
we continually seek to improve DP3 processes through all venues possible. The Global Household Goods Contract
(GHC) is our flagship DP3 transformation effort. In the past year, we have been working closely with the military
departments and the contract awardee, HomeSafe Alliance (HSA), to bring GHC online.

As I described in our report to the Committees submitted in January, a deliberate, conditions-based phase
approach of GHC services will allow us to control the volume of shipments to assure continued quality customer
service, which remains our top priority during the phase-in period. We remain committed to driving the transition at
the appropriate pace ahead of the upcoming peak moving season, continuing Government and HomeSafe Alliance
integration with a focus on positive outcomes for customers and their families.

Addressing the information technology challenges we've identified is critical to ensuring an improved experience for
Service members and their families. Limited IT integration testing conducted in July and August of last year
identified issues with HomeSafe's software (HomeSafe Connect), on top of known government IT system (MilMove)
limited initial operating capabilities. Integration must be addressed before we can consider deploying the systems to
government personnel and customers. In the Fall of 2023, we replaced our lead MilMove IT developer, and
continue to build on the government's systems initial operating capability.

                                                                                         Page 13 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

In mid-January, we brought together personal property representatives from all branches of service to conduct end-
to-end testing between DOD's MilMove and HomeSafe Alliance's

HomeSafe Connect systems. The users validated the functionality of both systems and confirmed resolution of
previously identified issues. The locations where we plan to begin issuing GHC task orders have been selected and
finalized in coordination with the military departments. These locations are designated by selected zip codes in the
Camp Lejeune, Camp Pendleton, Norfolk, San Diego, and Seattle metro areas. We plan to start with a small
number of local shipments later this spring and continue through the summer at limited locations, before expanding
the program this fall once peak season is complete. I would like to reiterate that a quality customer experience is
our top priority during this transition and will inform the pace determined by USTRANSCOM and the military
services.

Joint Transportation Management System (JTMS)

In an ever-changing threat environment, cutting edge logistics information technology solutions are critical to
supporting our Global Mobility Posture, Global Mobility Capacity, and Global Command, Control, and Integration.
The JTMS will provide the JDDE one primary system to integrate end-to-end transportation operations to deliver
and sustain the Joint Force. Through the JTMS, USTRANSCOM will connect to the Service and agency logistics
systems and provide a common platform to integrate global combatant command operations into the JDDE for a
warfighter competitive advantage - while providing auditability, transparency, and optimized resource allocation.
Decision advantage will be strengthened by providing warfighters timely, costed options for transportation,
effectively matching requirements to available commercial and military capacity. Near real-time visibility of Total
Force movements, to include last tactical mile delivery, will instill operational confidence and maintain competitive
advantage for combatant commanders as they complete their missions. JTMS will also enable improved logistics
network resiliency through integrated capability to react to changing logistics environments, allowing maximized
diversion and challenge mitigations. Implementation of a commercial Enterprise Resource Planning solution will
position USTRANSCOM and the Department to strategically address the decades-old challenge of transportation
auditability. Integrated internal controls and transaction level transparency will support mitigation of existing material
weaknesses and lead to an unmodified audit opinion. USTRANSCOM is collaborating with OUSD(AandS) for the
procurement and implementation of the JTMS solution.

Conclusion

To remain successful, USTRANSCOM must be ready to project power today and tomorrow, and we will only
achieve this together. Continued success in the delivery of substantial aid to Ukraine as well as the rapid
deployment of forces and equipment to the Middle East have validated our reputation and generated momentum.
While we have achieved success over our 35-year history as a combatant command, we know we must continue to
innovate and accelerate the changes necessary to remain ready now and into the future. We cannot rest on our
laurels - the risks are too great. Our competitors are watching our every move and quickly digesting lessons learned
to improve their own power projection capabilities while also enhancing their ability to disrupt, degrade, or deny our
capabilities. Contested environments highlight that our actions to deliberately recapitalize organic mobility
capabilities, and to modernize the JDDE, must continue for the DoD to maintain asymmetric advantages and deliver
on our national security requirements.

Our command has always met challenges and delivered success with innovation, determination, and
professionalism. Time after time, when the United States called, we delivered. To deliver in the future requires
focused attention today. Powered by dedicated men and women, USTRANSCOM underwrites the lethality of the
Joint Force, advances American interests around the globe, and provides our nation's leaders with strategic
flexibility to select from multiple options, while creating multiple dilemmas for our adversaries. I thank Congress for
your continued support to the men, women, and mission of USTRANSCOM. We remain dedicated to fight, deliver,
and win!

Together, We Deliver!

                                                                                         Page 14 of 14
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing The Posture of United States European Command and United
                    States Transportation Command in review of the Defense Authoriz....

Read this original      document   at:   https://www.armed-services.senate.gov/download/van-ovost-statement-
041124?download=1


Load-Date: April 15, 2024


  
