

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
     SBA Growth Accelerator Fund Competition Opens Jan. 8 to Expand and Strengthen its National Innovation
                         Ecosystem; Organizations will compete in two stages for $5....




   SBA Growth Accelerator Fund Competition Opens Jan. 8 to Expand and
Strengthen its National Innovation Ecosystem; Organizations will compete in
two stages for $50,000 to $200,000 in prizes; SBA to award up to $3 Million in
                              Stage One Prizes
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                             January 8, 2024 Monday 12:11 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 1003 words

Body

WASHINGTON, Jan. 08, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Today, Administrator Isabel Casillas Guzman, head of
the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and the voice in President Biden’s Cabinet for America’s more
than 33 million small businesses and startups, announced the opening of the 2024 Growth Accelerator Fund
Competition (GAFC). The competition offers $50,000 to $200,000 in prize awards in two stages to organizations to
join SBA’s national innovation support ecosystem to advance small business research and development (R&D)
from ideas to market. The Stage One application portal opens on Jan. 8 for five weeks, and the SBA will award up
to $3 million in Stage One prize money by April.

“The SBA is committed to advancing America’s global leadership in innovation across critical industries by
supporting entrepreneurs as they launch, grow, and manufacture across the country,” said SBA Administrator
Guzman. “The SBA’s 10-year strong Growth Accelerator Fund Competition (GAFC) strengthens the nation’s
innovation ecosystem and builds local partnerships critical to ensuring all of America’s great ideas can thrive
through the vast resources available through the federal government.”

Prizes Awarded in Two Stages

Stage One offers $50,000 in cash prizes awarded to organizations for ecosystem-building activities, including
recruitment of new partners, and strengthening existing alliances among stakeholders (including public, private,
non-profit, and academic partners). Contestants work collaboratively with chosen partners to bring additional
resources, deepen network connections, and develop strategies to support STEM/R&D-focused entrepreneurs and
small businesses. The SBA welcomes Stage One submissions from a broad range of organizations with a

                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
    SBA Growth Accelerator Fund Competition Opens Jan. 8 to Expand and Strengthen its National Innovation
                        Ecosystem; Organizations will compete in two stages for $5....

collaborative vision to nurture a national ecosystem for equitable access to entrepreneurship. Applicants are asked
to align their application with one of the following GAFC Theme Areas:

National and Economic Security, including but not limited to:
    •   National Security and Defense
    •   Artificial Intelligence
    •   Microelectronics
    •   Advanced Computing and Software
    •   Quantum Computing
    •   Human-Machine Interfaces
    •   Other Critical and Emerging Technologies

Domestic Manufacturing and Production, including but not limited to:
    •   Advanced Manufacturing R&D
    •   Supply Chain Resiliency
    •   Critical and Resilient Infrastructure
    •   AgTech and Agricultural Innovation
    •   Other Supply Chain, Infrastructure, and Manufacturing Technologies

Sustainability and Biotechnology, including but not limited to:
    •   Energy and Sustainability
    •   Biotechnology
    •   Climate and Environment
    •   Public Health
    •   Renewable Energy Generation and Storage
    •   Electric Vehicles
    •   Blue Economy
    •   Other Climate, Energy, and Life Science Technologies

Stage Two of the competition offers an additional $50,000 to $150,000 in cash prizes to eligible Stage One winners
to provide direct assistance to entrepreneurs, small businesses, and startups that are looking to commercialize their
innovation, from R&D to the commercial market. SBA intends to announce winners for Stage Two by September. A
federal agency partner may also elect to provide a bonus prize to one or more Stage One contestants focused on a
priority area of the agency partner’s choice. Bonus prize winners are awarded from the pool of Stage One
contestants.

 “This year’s Growth Accelerator Fund Competition builds on the success of last year’s competition, which
successfully catalyzed bonds between local and national innovation ecosystem support networks. The competition
Theme Areas aim to foster emerging partnerships around key innovation sectors. The prize awards will support
entrepreneurs operating in undercapitalized and underserved markets with valuable resources in America’s
innovation ecosystem,” said Bailey DeVries, Associate Administrator for SBA’s Office of Investment and
Innovation.

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
      SBA Growth Accelerator Fund Competition Opens Jan. 8 to Expand and Strengthen its National Innovation
                          Ecosystem; Organizations will compete in two stages for $5....

To access the Growth Accelerator Fund Competition Guidelines and Application Portal, please visit
americasseedfund.us/accelerators.

Two information webinars will be held to support potential Stage One applicants. The webinars are free and open to
the public.
      •   GAFC Pre-Application Webinar: Goals, rules, and how to apply
          •   Jan. 16, 2024, at 2 p.m. EST

          •   Register at https://bit.ly/2024GAFCPreApplicationWebinar
      •   GAFC Theme Explanation Webinar: A deep-dive into the tech themes with experts from relevant federal
          agencies.
          •   Jan. 31, 2024, at 2 p.m. EST

          •   Register at https://bit.ly/2024GAFCThemes

If you are interested in being a judge for the Growth Accelerator Competition, please fill out the following interest
form: https://bit.ly/2024GAFCJudgeInterest. Judges are unpaid volunteers and are screened for conflict of interest
and schedule conflicts before selection.

###

About SBA Office of Investment and InnovationThe U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Office of
Investment and Innovation (OII) leads programs that provide the high-growth small business community with
access to two things: financial capital and R&D funds to develop commercially viable innovations. Our work is
underpinned by public-private partnerships that help small businesses on their trajectory from idea to IPO. Learn
more at sba.gov.

About the U.S. Small Business AdministrationThe U.S. Small Business Administration makes the American
dream of business ownership a reality. As the only go-to resource and voice for small businesses backed by the
strength of the federal government, the SBA empowers entrepreneurs and small business owners with the
resources and support they need to start, grow, or expand their businesses or recover from a declared disaster. It
delivers services through an extensive network of SBA field offices and partnerships with public and private
organizations. Learn more at sba.gov.
Christine Saah-Nazer U.S. Small Business Administration 202-756-0304 christine.saahnazer@sba.gov   Han
Nguyen U.S. Small Business Administration 202-756-0304 han.nguyen@sba.gov   Rebecca Galanti U.S. Small
Business Administration 202-756-0304 rebecca.galanti@sba.gov



Load-Date: January 8, 2024


  
