

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 3
                  Fight for the Future: Statement Ahead of House E&C Hearing on Privacy Legislation




    Fight for the Future: Statement Ahead of House E&C Hearing on Privacy
                                   Legislation
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                             April 16, 2024 Tuesday 9:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1276 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: BOSTON, Massachusetts

Body


Fight for the Future, an advocacy group for digital rights, issued the following statement on April 15, 2024:

***

The following statement can be attributed to Lia Holland (they/she), Campaigns and Communications Director at
Fight for the Future:

"Congress has some great bills to consider this week that would make every single American's digital life safer. We
wholeheartedly support the DELETE Act, the Banning Surveillance Advertising Act, and the Algorithmic
Accountability Act. It's far past time for Congress to make powerful moves for the human rights of everyday people,
and these bills are it.

Unfortunately, some of the other bills under consideration are falling far short of their stated purpose and would
actually make things worse, particularly for LGBTQ+ youth. We remain opposed to KOSA, which has yet to have its
fundamental flaw of threatening content currently under political attack addressed, and object to laws like the
Protecting Kids on Social Media Act and the SCREEN Act, which would force people to submit to invasive age
verification measures that risk their digital privacy and censor lifesaving online resources for marginalized kids.

A comprehensive federal data privacy law is the number one piece of legislation that we need to push back on the
abuses of Big Tech and surveillance capitalism. We're grateful to see progress on this front, but the privacy law
we've been calling for all this time needs serious teeth. Looking at where APRA falls short has us concerned--it
needs to be stronger in order to be a net positive for our human right to privacy."

Fight Stances & Concerns

H.R. __, the American Privacy Rights Act

                                                                                                           Page 2 of 3
                Fight for the Future: Statement Ahead of House E&C Hearing on Privacy Legislation

While we are encouraged to see interest in comprehensive privacy regulations, Fight is concerned about several
aspects of APRA. We believe that a strong comprehensive data privacy law that protects everyone is the best way
to address the harms of Big Tech and surveillance capitalism. But the details matter, and we have concerns about
APRA that include:

* Preemption removes the ability for state governments to be responsive to evolving threats to our digital privacy
and safety--and ends important state privacy laws like BIPA and CCPA.

* We oppose terminating the FTC's current commercial surveillance rulemaking effort, and see APRA's current
unfunded mandates to the FTC as empty promises for an already underfunded agency.

* Any opt-out registry should cover future data collection and delete past data collected in one form and include
penalties for violation beyond the current $10,000 a year, which would just be a cost of doing business.

H.R. 7891, the Kids Online Safety Act (KOSA) (Reps. Bilirakis, Castor, Houchin, Schrier)

Fight opposes the current draft of KOSA. While we believe that recent changes are a step in the right direction, the
bill still has not had its fundamental flaw addressed: it threatens content that is currently under political attack, like
resources concerning gender-affirming healthcare and abortion. This threat would be neutralized if KOSA were
made explicitly content neutral, as Fight has continually pushed for. We maintain that focusing on comprehensive
privacy for all is a better way to protect kids online--rather than opening the door for censorship.

19th News: 'Why Some LGBTQ Groups Oppose the Current Kids Online                                           Safety     Act'
https://19thnews.org/2024/03/why-some-lgbtq-groups-oppose-the-current-kids-online-safety-act/

H.R. 7890, the Children and Teens' Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA 2.0) (Reps. Walberg and Castor)

Fight is neutral on COPPA 2.0. While this is a better child protection bill than KOSA, with far fewer harmful
unintended consequences, we aren't enthusiastic because it doesn't protect everyone. Adults and the many
children who will inevitably slip through the cracks deserve comprehensive privacy legislation.

Surveillance Technology Oversight Project: 'Internet Age Surveillance Censors LGBTQ Youth'
https://www.stopspying.org/latest-news/2024/4/3/stop-report-shows-internet-age-surveillance-censors-lgbtq-youth

H.R. 5628, the Algorithmic Accountability Act of 2023 (Rep. Clarke)

Fight supports bills like the Algorithmic Accountability Act that would provide valuable oversight over machines that
make decisions impacting people's lives. To reduce the harm of Big Tech, Congress should focus on ending the
use of discriminatory algorithms and abusive surveillance practices. Surveillance and automation is at the root of
Big Tech companies' power and dominance.

Joy Buolamwini: 'How the Federal Government Can Rein                              In    A.I.   in   Law     Enforcement'
https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/02/opinion/ai-police-regulation.html

H.R. 4311, the DELETE Act (Rep. Trahan)

Fight strongly supports the DELETE Act as an organizational priority, and urges members to preserve its strong
consumer protections against industry carveouts.

Fight for the Future: 'Human Rights & Consumer Protection Groups Call on the FTC to Launch a Do Not Call
Registry for Data Brokers' https://www.fightforthefuture.org/news/2024-03-27-human-rights-consumer-protection-
groups-call-on-the-ftc-to-launch-a-do-not-call-registry-for-data-brokers/

H.R. 4568, the TLDR Act (Rep. Trahan)

                                                                                                          Page 3 of 3
                Fight for the Future: Statement Ahead of House E&C Hearing on Privacy Legislation

Fight supports transparency laws like the TLDR Act that allow not only closer-to-informed user consent when it
comes to dense and misleading terms of service and privacy practices, but also improved standards that enable
study and comparison of the abuses of tech companies including around user data, AI training, and privacy.

New York Times: 'We Read 150 Privacy Policies. They Were an Incomprehensible                                  Disaster.'
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/06/12/opinion/facebook-google-privacy-policies.html

H.R. 5534, the Banning Surveillance Advertising Act of 2023 (Rep. Eshoo)

Fight strongly supports the Banning Surveillance Advertising Act, which would end a data-collection and user-
manipulation -based business model that is fundamentally incompatible with a democratic society. Surveillance
advertising puts user safety and privacy at risk while opening the door to social media echo chambers and
misinformation silos.

Cory Doctorow for the Electronic Frontier Foundation: 'To Save the News, We Must Ban Surveillance Advertising'
https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/05/save-news-we-must-ban-surveillance-advertising

H.R. 6149, the Protecting Kids on Social Media Act (Reps. James and Ryan)

Fight unequivocally opposes measures that force people to submit to invasive age verification measures that risk
their digital privacy and fence marginalized kids away from the resources they need. This bill abandons kids who
live in unsafe or unaffirming environments and use the internet to access life-saving resources that are under attack
across the country--whether information on sex education, gender-affirming healthcare, reproductive health,
etcetera.

The Trevor Project: 'LGBTQ Young People of Color in Online Spaces' https://www.thetrevorproject.org/research-
briefs/lgbtq-young-people-of-color-in-online-spaces-jul-2023/

H.R. 6429, the SCREEN Act (Rep. Miller)

Fight opposes age verification laws like the SCREEN Act because they create privacy and security issues that
threaten users. Additionally, the bill includes "obscene" in the definition of harmful to minors. There is a long history
of obscenity laws being deployed against LGBTQ people.

Hofstra                 Law:                    'When                   Obscenity                  Discriminates'
https://scholarlycommons.law.hofstra.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1163&context=faculty_scholarship

***

Original text here: https://www.fightforthefuture.org/news/2024-04-15-statement-ahead-of-house-ec-hearing-on-
privacy-legislation/

[Category: Sociological]

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8575383 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: April 16, 2024


  
