

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 2
        Calabrio Launches FedRAMP Authorized Offering, Calabrio GovSuite The cloud contact center solution is
                          Modern Workforce Performance Suite for Optimized Governmen....




  Calabrio Launches FedRAMP Authorized Offering, Calabrio GovSuite; The
  cloud contact center solution is Modern Workforce Performance Suite for
                 Optimized Government Customer Service
                                                      Business Wire
                                          March 5, 2024 Tuesday 2:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 642 words
Dateline: MINNEAPOLIS

Body


Calabrio , the workforce performance company, announced today that it has launched Calabrio GovSuite, a Federal
Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®) Moderate authorized cloud contact center solution.
U.S. federal government agencies and departments are now able to adopt and use Calabrio GovSuite, providing
public sector organizations with secure, easy-to-use, and scalable contact center software that allows them to:
    •      Simplify compliance with comprehensive Interaction Recording
    •      Modernize and optimize Workforce Management (WFM) and Quality Management processes
    •      Use advanced analytics to unlock the true voice of the citizen while refining agent skillsets
    •      Save valuable IT time, budget, and resources with an intuitive, cloud-based platform that's easy to use and
           maintain.

"For decades, our cloud solutions have enriched high-quality customer journeys and transformed how organizations
manage contact center workforce performance," said Raj Shankar, VP of Product Management, Calabrio. "As
software regulations and security measures evolve, Calabrio continues to ensure the highest standards are met so
our customers can pursue their digital transformation with confidence, backed by innovative, secure technology that
helps address their most complex challenges."

"We are thrilled to add Calabrio GovSuite to our GovPoint© Cloud Services (GCS) offering," said Jeff Willis, Chief
Information Officer, MIS Sciences. "GovPoint Cloud Services is a cloud environment with a FedRAMP JAB
Moderate authorization for IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS, and we are excited to have Calabrio GovSuite as part of our
technology offering."

"This is a significant achievement for Calabrio," said Joel Martins, Interim CEO and Chief Technology Officer,
Calabrio. "Security for our customers has always been a top priority for Calabrio and this FedRAMP milestone is
another third-party validation attesting to our commitment to security."

https://www.calabrio.com/products/fedramp/

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
     Calabrio Launches FedRAMP Authorized Offering, Calabrio GovSuite The cloud contact center solution is
                       Modern Workforce Performance Suite for Optimized Governmen....

About Calabrio

Calabrio is a trusted ally to leading brands. The digital foundation of a customer-centric contact center, Calabrio
GovSuite helps enrich and understand human interactions, empowering your contact center to quickly adapt to
evolving citizen demands. We maximize agent performance, exceed customer expectations, and boost workforce
efficiency using connected data, AI-fueled analytics, and automated workforce management. Only Calabrio
GovSuite unites workforce optimization (WFO), agent engagement, and business intelligence solutions in the cloud
to deliver exceptional citizen experiences.

About MIS Sciences Corporation

Since 1996, MIS Sciences Corporation has been providing cloud services, sustainability services, professional
services, application development, managed hosting, disaster recovery, and messaging services to Government
agencies and to all sizes of businesses from start-ups to Fortune 500 companies. FedRAMP services are offered
through GovPoint© Cloud Services a cloud environment with a FedRAMP JAB Moderate authorization for IaaS and
PaaS.

About FedRAMP

The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) is a government-wide program that
provides a standardized approach to security assessment, authorization, and continuous monitoring for cloud
products and services. The goals of FedRAMP are to accelerate the adoption of secure cloud solutions through
reuse of assessments and authorizations, increase confidence in the security of cloud solutions, achieve consistent
security authorizations using a baseline set of agreed upon standards for cloud solutions, ensure consistent
application of existing security practices, increase confidence in security assessments and increase automation and
near real-time data for continuous monitoring.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240305680024/en/


CONTACT: Calabrio@touchdownpr.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: March 7, 2024


  
