

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 7
    New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews, Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as
                       Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Busine....




   New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews,
Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg
   TV and the FOX Business Network; Broadcastings Begin on Saturday,
 January 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET; The Shows Features its Newest Business
           Segment, "Money Makers," with TV Host Colin Jordan
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              January 12, 2024 Friday 6:30 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CALENDAR OF EVENTS; PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 4102 words

Body


NEW YORK, Jan. 12, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- New to The Street, an FMW Media production, will begin
airing on Saturday, January, 13, 2024 its corporate interviews, episodes 547 and 548, as sponsored programming
on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Business Network.

New to The Street show airs on Bloomberg TV as a sponsored programming Saturday, January 13, 2024, at 6:30
PM ET; features the following five (5) corporate interviews:

1). Space Medicines - Vector Space Biosciences, Inc.'s (SBIO) interview with Kasian Franks, CEO and Co-
Founder.

2). New Segment - "Money Makers," with TV Host Colin Jordan - Interview with sotol beverage producer Los Magos
Spirits International, Inc.'s ("LMSI") Ryan Stock, CEO.

3). Air Travel Electrification – Surf Air Mobility, Inc.'s (NYSE: SRFM) ($SRFM) interviews with Stan Little, Chief
Executive Officer, and Sudhin Shahani, Founder.

4). Financial Marketing / Investor Relations Firm - IR Labs, Inc.'s interview with Caroline Sawamoto and Alyssa
Barry, Principals & Co-Founders.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 7
   New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews, Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as
                      Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Busine....

5). "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO,
Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®) ($SWISF).

New to The Street show airs on the FOX Business Network on Monday, January 15, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT;
features the following five (5) corporate interviews:

1). Space Medicines - Vector Space Biosciences, Inc.'s (SBIO) interview with Kasian Franks, CEO and Co-
Founder.

2). New Segment - "Money Makers," with TV Host Colin Jordan - Interview with sotol beverage producer Los Magos
Spirits International, Inc.'s ("LMSI") Ryan Stock, CEO.

3). Air Travel Electrification – Surf Air Mobility, Inc.'s (NYSE: SRFM) ($SRFM) interviews with Stan Little, Chief
Executive Officer, and Sudhin Shahani, Founder.

4). Stock Blockchain Trading Platform – BlackStar Enterprise Group, Inc.'s (OTCPINK: BEGI) ($BEGI) interview
with Joesph Kurczodyna, CEO.

5). "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO,
Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®) ($SWISF).

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King from the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio sits with Kasian Franks, CEO and Co-
Founder of Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) ("Vector"). The Company works towards innovations to assist
humans with drug research in space. Kasian explains the significant medical advancements from research
conducted in a microgravity setting. Space can enable a drug compound to crystallize uniformly without the
interference of Earth's gravity. These drugs can be more effective, giving precision medicine to those with diseases
and illnesses. Large pharmaceutical companies are developing and repurposing drugs from space experiments.
The FDA has around 2,400 drugs approved, but space can create better compounds for a different pharmacology
than the original. Kasian talks about Keyturda and Wegovy, examples of drugs repurposed or developed from
space experiments. FDA approvals on repurposing a drug are within a few months versus many years and millions
of dollars for new FDA drug approval applications. A repurposed drug can add a considerable dollar valuation to an
entity with proven success. In the pipeline, Vector is awaiting governmental approval for future rocket launch
date(s). Once on the launch calendar, Vector and its sponsors will proceed with a space biological CubeSats lab
experiment. Investors interested in the Company can learn about SBIO, a security token that represents the
Company's equity. Vectorspace AI, the parent company, has VXV, a utility token that protects the dataset security
and provenance on data-driven innovation and discoveries from experiments. With AI and space experiment data,
Vector Space Biosciences has an exciting business model. The on-screen QR code is available during the show;
download or visit Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) - https://vectorspacebio.science/. The interview will air on
Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on Saturday, January 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET and on the FOX
Business Network on Monday, January 15, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

From the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio, New to Street features its newest TV business segment, "Money Makers," with
TV Co-Hosts Colin Jordan and Jane King. Together, they interview Ryan Stock, CEO of Los Magos Spirits
International, Inc., a company that is taking sotol, a centuries-old Mexican alcoholic beverage, usually locally
produced, and bringing the tasty beverage into international markets. With a focus on land, soul, and community,
Los Magos looks to maintain the knowledge of the traditional production methods but scale outputs using modern-
day manufacturing approaches. Management always seeks sustainability in its agricultural and production
processes. Ryan tells viewers that many consumers have never heard of sotol, its history, or the plant that derives
the spirit. Sotol is a distilled spirit from a plant, Dasylirion, commonly found in the Chihuahuan desert in Mexico.
Stolo is not Tequila or Mezcal, which comes from the agave plant. Consumers are looking for tasty new drinks, and
the demand for Mexican-based spirits is growing worldwide. A hospitality entity in Las Vegas recently informed
Ryan that vodka is no longer the drink of choice, and the supply of Tequila products has oversaturated markets. Los
Magos's sotol is flavorful and smooth tasting, and consumer demand is growing throughout the USA, Canada, and

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 7
    New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews, Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as
                       Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Busine....

Mexico. Promotional events are a good way for consumers to learn about Los Magos Sotol, and in Q1 -2024, the
Company expects to launch the product in the Asian and European markets. Los Magos Sotol is growing its sales
and marketing, with consumer demand for the tasty drink growing in tandem. Viewers interested in learning more
about Los Magos Spirits International, Inc. and where to purchase Los Magos Sotol can visit
https://losmagossotol.com/. A QR code is available during the show to download more information. The interview
will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on Saturday, January 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET and on the
FOX Business Network on Monday, January 15, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King talks with IR Labs Inc.'s Caroline Sawamoto and Alyssa Barry, Principals &
Co-Founders. Based in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, IR Labs Inc. (“irlabs”) provides clients, who are
public and private companies, with investor relations, corporate communications, corporate governance, and other
financial marketing services. Alyssa's and Caroline's experiences as in-house investor relations representatives for
several public companies enabled them to form irlabs. As a full-service firm, irlabs assists clients with their needs,
from investor relations services, press release writings, media relations, social media management, road-show
presentations, planning annual general meetings, and much more. Private companies also need irlabs services to
provide a better corporate communications platform to inform investors about corporate ongoings. irlabs and New to
The Street entered a media partnership, where irlabs clients can be part of New to The Street's comprehensive
media platforms. Many Canadian public companies have cross-listed on US exchanges. New to The Street has an
influential and well-recognized media following that can bring visibility to irlabs' clients. With TV broadcasting, digital
billboard ads, target commercials, and social media marketing, New to The Street provides an excellent resource to
help irlabs' clients get their business stories told. The partnership between irlabs and New to the Street represents a
strategic move toward strengthening the bridge between Canadian OTC-listed companies and US investors. irlabs
has a global following of retail investors, institutional investors, family offices, and analysts. Financial marketing
success is not just about stock price and liquidity appreciation. A critical success to irlabs is effective
communication between their clients and their investors, communicating the goals and milestones, and being
proactive on clients' feedback regarding operations. irlabs seeks to help public and private entities get their
business narratives foretold while training CEOs and other corporate leaders on effective communication with the
financial markets. New to The Street and irlabs aim to provide Canadian companies listed on the OTC market with
enhanced visibility and exposure to the US investor community. The on-screen QR code is available during the
show; download or visit IR Labs Inc. - https://www.irlabs.ca/. The interview will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored
programming on Saturday, January 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET.

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King, from the New York Stock Exchange Studio, talks with Stan Little, Chief
Executive Officer, and Sudhin Shahani, Founder of Surf Air Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: SRFM) ($SRFM). The Company is
a regional airline business and is in the development and commercialization of electrified aircraft. With on-demand
and scheduled services, SRFM provides affordable air travel to approximately 500,000 passengers yearly. Stan
informs viewers that its current mobility platforms can offer cost-effective flights, some as low as $99. Management
believes its fully electric and hybrid-electric aircraft will be available within three years, flying passengers in regional
markets. Sudhin explains how the Company's engineering team can convert news and use Cessna turbo-prop
planes to electrify aircraft. The US has over 5,000 smaller regional public airports, but only 30 airports account for
70% of airline traffic. Management sees a large, underserved regional market that can significantly benefit from its
current air mobility platforms and create an efficient and affordable green regional flying experience. SRFM has a
solid speed-to-market input from converting existing aircraft to its electrified powertrain. Other air-transport
products, including vertical lift crafts, have long lead times, certification issues, and other regulator factors before
marketability. Another competitive advantage is that SRFM has a pilot training program, graduating FAA-certified
pilots for their platforms and large commercial airlines. Surf Air Mobility, Inc. aims to be a future leader in regional
cost-effective electric air travel. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit Surf Air
Mobility, Inc. - https://www.surfair.com/. The interview will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on
Saturday, January 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET and on the FOX Business Network on Monday, January 15, 2024, at
10:30 PM PT.

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 7
    New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews, Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as
                       Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Busine....

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King talks with Joseph Kurczodyna, CEO of BlackStar Enterprise Group, Inc.
(OTCPINK: BEGI) ($BEGI), about the Company's digital trading platform for common stocks. Since 2017, BlackStar
Enterprise has focused on unique and novel innovations inspired by token/coin crypto trading. The Company
developed its "BDTP™" (BlackStar Digital Trading Platform™), a centralized blockchain platform for digitally trading
public companies' stocks. In October 2023, the Company was issued its first patent for its digital platform and
currently has four other patents pending. Joseph explains the differences between decentralized and centralized
platforms, with the decentralized trading platforms operating without regulatory approvals. Designed as a
centralized blockchain, BDTP™, when it becomes available, will run under regulatory approvals and broker-dealer
compliances. BlackStar was originally a merchant banking entity that looked to fund early-stage companies. Still,
Joseph realized the potential of using a blockchain for trading shares and moved the Company's mission to develop
BDTP forward. Discouraged investors don't like the market maker controls and other market mechanisms, which
give unfair advantages, eliminating best bid-ask prices when buying/selling shares on stock exchanges. BDTP™
allows for converting shares into a digital wallet, and then the wallet holding digital stock values can be integrated
into a current broker-dealer trading platform to execute timely and efficient trades. Brokers will only see the
completed transaction, the trades will have no market maker interferences, and the blockchain records all trade
transactions. BDTP expects to meet US SEC and FINRA regulatory requirements as a fully encrypted centralized
trading platform. Once fully operational, shareholders can control their trades, cutting out the market makers, and
should expect better-executed prices on trades. The Company expects to generate fees from brokers and public
companies who use the platform, a new transparent, centralized blockchain approach to trading public securities.
The interview will air on the FOX Business Network on Monday, January 15, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

Internationally acclaimed internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO, Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE:
SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) (Sekur®) ($SWISF) and New to The Street TV Host / Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry
present the "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – The Weekly Hack" segment. Ana and Alain discuss the topic of the
recent hacking and the theft of data at well-known casino properties, Caesars Entertainment and MGM
Resorts. The hack occurred from a source in the USA, and the FBI is still investigating the crime. Alain says casino
data is valuable, providing information like names, addresses, hotel stay particulars, and other private info. Most
likely, the hackers are selling stolen data on the "Dark Web." Even if you haven't been to these Las Vegas
properties recently, data from years ago was probably on the servers when stolen. At the onset, it looked like the
hack came from an email; casinos and other businesses, unfortunately, use open-source email platforms. The best
option is to have a secure Sekur Private Data Ltd email platform. Sekur offers a new product, SekurRelay, software
that allows management and other C-suite executives a private and secure email communication platform. Unique
to Sekur, the product enables splitting a business domain, allowing emails on Sekur's platform without limiting the
domain's other emails on other platforms. The product comes with SekurMail's SekurSend/SekurReply feature that
invites electronic communication on Sekur's closed-loop encrypted platform. The recipient must not be a Sekur
subscriber to enjoy the security and privacy features of the product. Subscribers can send emails with time limits,
password protection, and other time-out features to enhance privacy for themselves and the recipient. SekurMail
has two alias email addresses used for general emails, not for transmitting private data. Alain also recommends its
SekurVPN services, which allows end-users to appear always as operating in Switzerland, masking a subscriber's
internet footprint. IP addresses are private under Swiss privacy laws. Any data mining or reselling of information is a
significant violation in Switzerland, the strictest privacy law in the world. Alain again informs viewers that Sekur
Private Data, Ltd. wholly owns and controls its Swiss base servers, never sells data, never mines data, never asks
for phone numbers, never uses 3rd party providers, and never tracks internet traffic. The Company is offering
PROMO CODE: PRIVACY that gives 15% savings toward monthly and yearly subscriptions to any of its services.
Viewers, please tune in next time for the newest cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security–
Weekly Hack" segment. The on-screen QR code is available during the shows to download more info or visit Sekur
Private Data, Ltd. – https://sekurprivatedata.com/, http:/sekur.com/ and https://sekur.com/en/vpn. Privacy has
arrived! The interview will air on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming on Saturday, January 13, 2024, at 6:30
PM ET and on the FOX Business Network on Monday, January 15, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

About Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO):

                                                                                                 Page 5 of 7
   New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews, Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as
                      Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Busine....

Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO), the parent company of Vectorspace AI (VXV), and its scientific
collaborators design, develop, and launch biological CubeSats to generate and interpret unique datasets related to
microgravity and radiation. This leads to the development of countermeasures against diseases associated with
stressors connected to protecting and repairing the human body during spaceflight. This includes using a network of
scientific data engineering pipelines to build targeted language models resulting in real-time datasets that power
Artificial Intelligence (AI) operations in space biosciences, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical development.
Working with leading scientific labs in human aging, cancer, and nutrigenomics, the Company's goal is to
accelerate the process of new hypothesis generation and novel discoveries in space biosciences, including
materials sciences in nanotechnology and nanomedicines. Developing advanced large and small language
modeling/AI technologies, our platform can produce more than 100,000,000,000 different real-time datasets to
accelerate discoveries. Innovations in space biosciences result in products and services for all industries, including
the financial markets, and more importantly, new forms of precision medicine for all humankind -
https://vectorspacebio.science/.

About Los Magos Spirits International, Inc. ("LMSI" ):

Los Magos Spirits International, Inc. ("LMSI") is leading the international expansion of Los Magos sotol, a storied
spirit from Chihuahua, Mexico, with a rich history dating back at least to the origins of tequila and mezcal. Los
Magos' triple distilled process provides a very smooth, rounded, and buttery feel with floral notes, light citrus, and
hints of its desert terroir with faint wisps of smoke from the earthen ovens in which the sotol pinas are baked. The
Company seeks sustainable agricultural practices and educational resources to better understand eco-friendly
farming and industrial practices. LMSI's management team strictly adheres to governmental environmental impact
assessments and licensing standards while adopting production practices that are always environmentally,
economically, and culturally. Because the sotol plant is wild-grown and 100% organic and never uses fertilizer or
other enhancements, the Los Magos Sotol is a fantastically tasting beverage – https://losmagossotol.com.

About IR LABS, Inc.

Driving investor engagement through creativity, purpose, and honest communication. Investor relations from every
angle. IR LABS, Inc. is an industry sector-agnostic firm that supports private and public companies with its investor
relations programs, corporate communications, and corporate governance programs - www.irlabs.ca.

About Surf Air Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: SRFM) ($SRFM):

Surf Air Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: SRFM) ($SRFM) is a Los Angeles-based regional air mobility platform expanding the
category of regional air travel to reinvent flying through the power of electrification. The Company looks to reduce
the cost and environmental impact of flying substantially. As the operator of the largest commuter airline in the US,
Surf Air Mobility intends to develop powertrain technology with its commercial partners to electrify existing fleets
and bring electrified aircraft to market at scale. The management team has deep experience and expertise across
aviation, electrification, and consumer technology - https://www.surfair.com/.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About BlackStar Enterprise Group, Inc. (OTC PINK: BEGI) ($SWISF):

Blackstar Enterprise Group, Inc. (OTCPINK: BEGI) ($BEGI) is a public company that shares trade on the OTC
Markets. The Company is developing a unique blockchain trading system for registered securities using Distributed

                                                                                                  Page 6 of 7
    New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews, Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as
                       Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Busine....

Ledger Technology (DLT) and Web 3.0 ecosystem protocols. This revolutionary software platform is called the
BlackStar Digital Trading Platform™ ("BDTP™"), a trading platform for electronic fungible shares in book-entry, and
compliant at any US Brokerage Firm. The platform drops into the compliant US Broker-Dealer trading system and
acts as a spot market that only accepts cash and free-trading securities without allowing any short selling. Once
BDTP TM is live, after SEC and FINRA approvals, BlackStar intends to market the platform to other publicly traded
companies      as    a    subscription   service   with    an    issuer-specific     customizable     interface   -
http://www.blackstarenterprisegroup .com.

About New to The Street:

New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running US and International
sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street." Since 2009, New to
The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S. television networks. The Nielsen-rated
and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US and international markets.
FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Business Network as sponsored
programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form paid
programming - https://www.newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all filings of the Companies
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT:

FMW Media Contact: Monica Brennan monica@NewtoTheStreet.com 1-917-330-2564

"New to The Street" Business Development Office 1-516-696-5900 Support@NewToTheStreet.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                          at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/c544ac02-2f8b-43eb-8930-d66d00e6dded

New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews, Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as
Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Business Network; Broadcastings Begin on Saturday,
January 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

Shows 547/548: 1). Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) 2). Los Magos Spirits International, Inc. ("LMSI") 3).
Surf Air Mobility, Inc. (NYSE: SRFM) ($SRFM) 4). IR Labs, Inc. 5). Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF)

                                                                                                 Page 7 of 7
   New to The Street Announces its Televised Five Corporate Interviews, Episodes 547 and 548, Show Airs as
                      Sponsored Programming on Bloomberg TV and the FOX Busine....

(CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0)           (Sekur®)   6).BlackStar   Enterprise   Group,   Inc.   (OTCPINK:   BEGI)     -
https://www.newtothestreet.com/


Load-Date: January 12, 2024


  
