

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 2
   Skytap Expands Global Footprint With Availability in Microsoft Azure India Data Centers New Skytap on Azure
                           regions in Pune and Chennai to meet India 's growing....




 Skytap Expands Global Footprint With Availability in Microsoft Azure India
  Data Centers; New Skytap on Azure regions in Pune and Chennai to meet
India's growing enterprise demand for running IBM Power Systems in Azure
                                                   Business Wire
                                        April 9, 2024 Tuesday 2:05 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 541 words
Dateline: SEATTLE

Body


Skytap , an industry-leading service to run IBM Power and x86 workloads natively in the cloud, today announced
global expansion plans with planned availability in two additional Microsoft Azure data centers: Central India (Pune)
and South India (Chennai).

Introduced in 2020 with availability in Azure's US East region, Skytap on Azure is one of the market's only
infrastructure-as-a-service purpose-built to run IBM Power workloads natively in Azure. Since then, Skytap has
continued expansion to meet increasing demand with expansion in 2021 to Azure's Singapore, Amsterdam, and US
South Central regions and in 2022 to Azure's London, Dublin, and Hong Kong regions.

Skytap will be available in Azure's India region starting with Central India (Pune) in April and then South India
(Chennai) later this year, further expanding Skytap on Azure's global reach. "As enterprise demand for running
specialized workloads in the cloud continues to increase, we've seen significant interest in India," stated Lee Jiles,
SVP of Sales and Marketing at Skytap. "We're eager to provide these enterprises with a simple and much needed
path to the cloud for their IBM Power workloads."

The accelerating interest in infrastructure-as-a-service for Power workloads is expected to continue. According to
the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Semiannual Public Cloud Services Tracker, the India public
cloud services market is expected to reach $17.8 billion by 2027, growing at a CAGR of 23.4% for 2022-27.

Nearly four years since its introduction, Skytap on Azure is providing enterprises a gateway to benefits well beyond
cloud scalability, agility, high availability, and disaster recovery. "Skytap customers are finding added value by
connecting legacy applications to Azure native services such as artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML),
security and accelerated devops," noted Rahul Tripathi, Chief Product and Technology Officer at Skytap. "These
value enhancements further strengthen the business case for moving traditional workloads to the cloud and deliver
competitive advantages for those modernizing IT infrastructure."

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
  Skytap Expands Global Footprint With Availability in Microsoft Azure India Data Centers New Skytap on Azure
                          regions in Pune and Chennai to meet India 's growing....

"With Skytap on Azure, Microsoft brings the unique capabilities of the IBM Power ecosystem to Azure data centers
in India. Customers can easily migrate existing AIX and IBM i based applications to Azure and unlock cloud
benefits," stated Eric Lockard, Corporate Vice President, Azure Specialized at Microsoft.

About Skytap

Skytap is a cloud service purpose-built to natively run traditional systems in Microsoft Azure and IBM Cloud. As the
best cloud service to support AIX, IBM i, and Linux on IBM Power together with x86, Skytap makes it easy to evolve
traditional workloads by rapidly migrating them to the cloud. Enterprises around the world like IBM, Honeywell, CA
Technologies, and Okta use Skytap for production workloads, disaster recovery, virtual training labs, and
application development. Skytap's cloud environment simplifies management, reduces IT costs, speeds up
application development, and allows organizations of all sizes to modernize at the pace of their business. Learn
more at www.skytap.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240409782924/en/


CONTACT: Kim Claditis

kimcladitis@skytap.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: April 9, 2024


  
