

                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
              CMU , PITT RESEARCHERS COMPETE IN 3-YEAR, $7M DARPA TRIAGE CHALLENGE




     CMU, PITT RESEARCHERS COMPETE IN 3-YEAR, $7M DARPA TRIAGE
                            CHALLENGE
                                                  States News Service
                                                August 6, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 901 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: PITTSBURGH, PA

Body


The following information was released by Carnegie Mellon University:

Team Chiron to use robotics, AI, sensors to detect severe injuries in mass casualty events

By: Marylee Williams Email

Every second matters to emergency medical teams as they approach a mass casualty event and identify who
needs immediate treatment. Breakthroughs in medical triage using robotics, artificial intelligence, drones and
advanced sensing could save lives by directing medical personnel to people most in need of treatment.

Team Chiron hopes to make those breakthroughs happen.

The team, comprising researchers from Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh, is developing
noninvasive, remote-detection systems for injury assessment as part of the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency's (DARPA) three-year, $7 million DARPA Triage Challenge(opens in new window). Team Chiron will use an
aerial drone and several ground robots equipped with multimodal sensor packs to evaluate the severity of injuries
on mannequins and human actors.

"A critical outcome of this challenge is to infer lifesaving interventions from injury patterns and globally integrate that
data with responders for transportation and sustainment response execution," said Kimberly Elenberg(opens in new
window), the team's principal investigator and a principal project scientist in the Robotics Institute(opens in new
window) (RI) in CMU's School of Computer Science(opens in new window).

DARPA is hosting the challenge to push advancements in medical triage. Teams from across the world are building
robotic systems that can detect injuries in a mass casualty event and determine their severity using data captured
by sensors on autonomous systems. The teams will be scored on the percentage of casualties identified, the
accuracy in reporting casualty locations and casualty injury classification, the time to complete these casualty
assessments, and more.

                                                                               Page 2 of 2
            CMU , PITT RESEARCHERS COMPETE IN 3-YEAR, $7M DARPA TRIAGE CHALLENGE

The DARPA Triage Challenge consists of three rounds of competition in three categories: systems, virtual or data.
Team Chiron is one of 15 teams competing in the systems category. The first-place team in the final round of
competition in the systems category will win $1.5 million. Millions more in prize money and funding will be awarded
to teams during the three-year challenge.

Team Chiron tested their robotic system in June to gather data and prepare for the challenge's first competition in
late September. During the test, robots and drones performed tasks assessing the medical status of casualties in a
simulated environment. They measured vital signs such as heart and respiratory rate, and used thermal cameras to
detect body heat. The team tested network reliability through the transmission of data to DARPA's central command
unit. Overall, these tests aimed to improve the efficiency, accuracy and reliability of medical triage and disaster
response.

During a test, Team Chiron's robots and drones performed tasks to assess the medical status of casualties in a
simulated environment.

In the first competition, members of the team will control aerial and ground robots that survey the scene of a mass
casualty event. In the second- and third-year challenges, the robots must act autonomously. Throughout the
competition, Team Chiron will benefit from CMU's prior participation in the DARPA Subterranean Challenge(opens
in new window), where CMU made autonomous robots that mapped and searched underground environments such
as mines, cave networks and urban infrastructure, said John Galeotti(opens in new window), a senior systems
scientist in the RI.

"Right now, we're focused on how to use sensors and AI to estimate these physiological signs of trauma in a
noncontact way," Galeotti said. "Normally, if a field medic, an EMT or a nurse were there, some of the first things
they would do is walk up to the patient and take their pulse, touching them. There are a lot of things they would do
that are hands-on. We can't do any of that.

"One of the biggest parts of this challenge is how we decide what state the casualties are in when we can't get any
closer than a meter away," he continued. "We and the other teams are focusing heavily on that problem in year
one, and there is still a lot to be done."

Each team is tackling research questions about how to best use robotics, AI and other technologies to assess and
identify the severity of injuries. At the end of the three-year competition, Galeotti said, researchers will know how to
better tackle the problems of medical triage.

"Whether or not we've solved all the problems, we will hopefully have proven technologies that can solve several of
the problems," he said. "We're hopeful that, as a tangible outcome of this competition, we begin to see the transition
of the technologies out of academia into commercially available products that ultimately play a role in saving
people's lives."

Along with Elenberg and Galeotti, RI members of Team Chiron include Sebastian Scherer(opens in new window),
an associate research professor; Artur Dubrawski(opens in new window), the Alumni Research Professor of
Computer Science; Laszlo Jeni(opens in new window), an assistant research professor; and Srinivasa
Narasimhan(opens in new window), the U.A. and Helen Whitaker Professor of Robotics. The team also includes Dr.
Leonard Weiss, an associate professor in the Emergency Medicine Department at the Pitt School of Medicine.


Load-Date: August 9, 2024


  
