

                                                                                                Page 1 of 2
           Media Tip Sheet: Crews Work to Open Temporary Channel Near Baltimore Key Bridge Collapse




  Media Tip Sheet: Crews Work to Open Temporary Channel Near Baltimore
                          Key Bridge Collapse
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              April 1, 2024 Monday 3:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 690 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


George Washington University issued the following news:

WASHINGTON (April 1, 2024) - The cleanup process is underway at the site of the collapsed Francis Scott Key
Bridge collapse in Baltimore, where crews are working to open a temporary channel. Last week, a container ship
lost power and steering and hit the bridge, causing its full collapse and killing six construction workers who were on
the bridge at the time. Maryland leaders are pressing Congress to quickly advance more aid money to help fully
reopen the channel.

Faculty experts at the George Washington University are available to offer insight, academic commentary and
analysis on the collapse, rebuilding process, cleanup effort, and long-term impact on the port and the region. If you
would like to speak with an expert, please contact GW Senior Media Relations Specialist Cate Douglass at [email
protected].

Sameh S. Badie is a professor of civil and environmental engineering. Badie conducts research on reinforced and
prestressed concrete structures, with applications on buildings and highway bridges. His research includes
theoretical and experimental investigation. Badie has a significant amount of experience developing innovative
prestressed, precast, concrete deck panel systems for highway bridges. His experimental experience includes
testing full-scale concrete components, such as deck panel systems and prestressed concrete girders.

Badie can discuss the collapse and what rebuilding could look like down the road. He said in a recent AP article that
rebuilding could take as little as 18 months to two years and the "cost could be between $500 million and $1 billion,
with the largest variable being the design."

Kim Roddis is a professor emerita of civil and environmental engineering and a registered professional engineer
who has experience in heavy industrial and general commercial building design, as well as in bridge design. As a
structural engineer, her expertise and research interests include design, fabrication, and construction processes;

                                                                                               Page 2 of 2
          Media Tip Sheet: Crews Work to Open Temporary Channel Near Baltimore Key Bridge Collapse

structural applications of artificial intelligence and computer-aided design; web-enhanced teaching; fatigue and
fracture in bridges; frame stability; and seismic steel connections. She is recognized nationally as an expert in
distortion-induced fatigue of steel highway bridges and internationally as an expert on the application of artificial
intelligence and advanced computing methods to civil engineering problem solving.

Joseph Barbera is an associate professor of engineering management and systems engineering. Through the GW
Institute for Crisis, Disaster, and Risk Management, Barbera conducts research across a wide range of topics in
emergency management, risk management, and business continuity. Current and recent research focuses upon
large-scale incident (disaster) management, hazard risk assessments, public health hazard risk reduction,
collapsed-structure search strategies, and confined space medical interventions. He also focuses on healthcare
emergency management that is focused both on mass casualties and continuity of critical operations.

Barbera can speak to how a complex incident like this is managed and the huge and long-lasting impact for the Port
of Baltimore, the State of Maryland, and the east coast's North-South vehicle (commercial truck and passenger car)
traffic as it pertains to reopening the channel and recovery. He can discuss the cleanup process, which he told USA
Today was a very complex situation.

Sanjay Jain is an associate industry professor in the department of decision sciences. His research interests are in
the development and application of decision science techniques to complex systems with current focus on smart
manufacturing, supply chains and project management. Jain can discuss the national and international economic
impact of the collapse and other implications related to supply chains, shipping, etc. around the closure of this major
U.S. port.

-GW-

***

Original text here: https://mediarelations.gwu.edu/media-tip-sheet-crews-work-open-temporary-channel-near-
baltimore-key-bridge-collapse

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8554523 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: April 1, 2024


  
