

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 2
    The Bold Group Empowers Alwaleed Philanthropies' Atlai, an AI-powered Initiative to Confront Deforestation
                                                 Globally




   The Bold Group Empowers Alwaleed Philanthropies' Atlai, an AI-powered
                Initiative to Confront Deforestation Globally
                                                           PR Newswire
                                             March 4, 2024 Monday 6:22 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 869 words
Dateline: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, March 4, 2024

Body


PR NewswireRIYADH, Saudi Arabia, March 4, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- The Bold Group, a pioneering Saudi creative
powerhouse, proudly announces its collaboration with Alwaleed Philanthropies on Atlai, an innovative AI-powered
platform aimed at confronting deforestation globally. With a shared commitment to leveraging emerging technology
for social good, The Bold Group has been a longstanding partner of Alwaleed Philanthropies, and the development
of Atlai marks a significant milestone in their partnership.

 Atlai, launched by Alwaleed Philanthropies, provides users worldwide with unprecedented access to data on
deforestation. Through meticulous data aggregation and analysis, the platform serves to document and raise
awareness of deforestation activities wherever they occur. Users can access historical data on deforestation by
country and receive on-demand, easy-to-digest reports available in seven languages, including English, French,
Spanish, Mandarin, Hindi, Italian, and Arabic.Deforestation, responsible for up to 20% of annual global greenhouse
gas emissions, poses a significant threat to our planet's health. Forests play a crucial role in mitigating climate
change and providing essential goods, services, and livelihoods. However, with deforestation increasing by 4%
worldwide in 2022, urgent action is needed to reverse this trend and achieve the goal of ending deforestation by
2030.In today's data-driven world, access to reliable information is essential for informed decision-making. Alwaleed
Philanthropies recognizes the transformative power of data in addressing the climate emergency and believes that
widespread access to climate data can catalyze meaningful engagement and action at all levels. Driven by the
Sustainable Development Goals and Saudi Vision 2030, Atlai aims to bridge the knowledge gap faced by groups
working to address deforestation by providing accessible, actionable data at no cost.The Bold Group's role in
assisting Alwaleed Philanthropies in building, developing, and maintaining Atlai underscores its dedication to
harnessing emerging technologies for social impact. As an avid adopter of innovative solutions, The Bold Group is
committed to developing products and solutions that address pressing global challenges across all
sectors.Moreover, this is a made-in-Saudi innovation created by a made-in-Saudi agency. The Bold Group projects
the ripple effects of Altai in placing Saudi local media at the forefront of contributing to solving global challenges. By
adopting and embracing emerging technologies, The Bold Group believes that local Saudi companies and Non-
Government Agencies are capable of making a global impact."At Bold, we believed in creating a local solution for a
very serious global problem; deforestation. It was an exciting challenge with the purpose of protecting our forests,
given to us by Alwaleed philanthropies. Hence, we created the tool with which we can equip the people with the
right information in our collective goal of protecting our globe, all while embracing the power of AI," said Ziad Abou

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
   The Bold Group Empowers Alwaleed Philanthropies' Atlai, an AI-powered Initiative to Confront Deforestation
                                                Globally

Rjeily, General Manager of Experiences at The Bold Group.Today's launch of Atlai reflects Alwaleed Philanthropies'
44-year commitment to creating a world of equal opportunities through innovation and collaboration. From apps
accelerating childhood development to initiatives fostering inclusivity in the Metaverse, Alwaleed Philanthropies has
continuously championed projects aimed at making a positive impact on society. Atlai represents the organization's
latest endeavor to invest in AI and emerging technologies to confront climate change and build a healthier world for
all.About The Bold GroupThe Bold Group is a proud Saudi independent creative ecosystem comprising three
units: Bold Brands, Bold Comms, and Bold Experiences. With over 100 professionals spanning offices in Riyadh
and Egypt, this award-winning, multi-disciplinary agency has partnered with over 200 clients. At the heart of its
business is a commitment to innovation, driving their continuous evolution in a fast-paced world. The Bold Group
specializes in brand building, creative communication, creative technologies and experiences. About Alwaleed
PhilanthropiesOver four decades, Alwaleed Philanthropies has supported and spent more than 4.4 billion dollars
on social welfare and initiated more than 1000 projects in over +189 countries and reaching more than 1 billion
beneficiaries around the world, regardless of gender, race, or religion. Managed by 10 Saudi women, Alwaleed
Philanthropies collaborates with a range of philanthropic, governmental, and nongovernmental to combat poverty,
empower women and youth, develop communities, provide disaster relief, and create cultural understanding
through education. It seeks to build bridges for a more compassionate, tolerant, and accepting world.Photo -
https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/2353537/Atlai.jpg

Logo -https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/2353125/The_Bold_Group_Logo.jpg View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-bold-group-empowers-alwaleed-philanthropies-atlai-an-
ai-powered-initiative-to-confront-deforestation-globally-302078388.htmlSOURCE The Bold Group


Load-Date: March 4, 2024


  
