

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                               Wanclouds Releases Highly Anticipated 2024 Cloud Outlook




              Wanclouds Releases Highly Anticipated 2024 Cloud Outlook
                                                           PR Newswire
                                          February 15, 2024 Thursday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 844 words
Dateline: SANTA CLARA, Calif., Feb. 15, 2024

Body


PR NewswireAfter a year of pull-back, over half of U.S. IT decision-makers are told by C-Suite to increase cloud
spending – as AI innovation drives cloud investment in 2024SANTA CLARA, Calif., Feb. 15, 2024 /PRNewswire-
PRWeb/ -- 53% of U.S. IT decision-makers say their C-Suite has given them the directive to increase cloud
spending in 2024, suggesting the cloud industry is in the midst of a rebound following opposite orders in the lead-up
to 2023 when only 18% were increasing spending, and most (40%) were directed to decrease cloud
spending."There's little doubt that AI is now a major driver of both cloud investment and overall cloud strategy for
enterprises. As a result, hybrid and multi-cloud environments are now becoming the status quo."These are some of
the top findings from the2024 Cloud Outlookpublished today byWanclouds, a leading multi-cloud SaaS and
managed service provider. The report, which is a follow-up to thewidely citedand globally recognizedWanclouds'
2022 Cloud Cost and Optimization Outlook, found that organizations are upping their cloud investments despite
ongoing economic uncertainty.

However, the 500 IT decision-makers surveyed to inform the outlook indicated they are analyzing cloud costs more
closely this year as the sticker shock of unexpected charges on businesses worsens. 67% of IT decision-makers
admit that their business has been hit by unexpected cloud costs in the last six to 12 months, compared to 53%
who said the same at the end of 2022.Being hit with these unexpected costs has prompted the vast majority to
assess their cloud spending on a more regular basis. In fact, nearly half (47%) of respondents say their organization
carried out their last cloud spend assessment within a few weeks or less. When surveyed at the end of 2022, the
vast majority had not done so for up to six months to a year.Cloud spending has fluctuated at an unprecedented
rate in the last few years, starting with the pandemic as organizations radically scaled their digital transformations,
then tapering off in 2022 and 2023 due to supply chain disruptions and crippling economic pressures. While this
year's rebound reflects the cloud's indispensability for many businesses, Wanclouds' report uncovered another
catalyst for its growth: Artificial Intelligence. 41% of U.S. IT decision-makers say their biggest reason for cloud
migrations in 2024 is to streamline software development and improve innovation with new technology (AI,
etc.).This hints at the scale of today's AI boom, with more companies building generative AI models that are trained
and run in the cloud. AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud are currently working to optimize their platforms for
AI. However, running AI applications on these platforms requires heavy use, which is another driver of high and
often unexpected cloud costs."There's little doubt that AI is now a major driver of both cloud investment and overall
cloud strategy for enterprises," said Faiz Khan, CEO of Wanclouds. "As a result, hybrid and multi-cloud
environments are now becoming the status quo. Unfortunately, companies are still finding it challenging to track
costs, backup applications, and migrate AI and complex workloads across these hybrid and multi-cloud

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
                          Wanclouds Releases Highly Anticipated 2024 Cloud Outlook

environments. Therefore, it's not a surprise that IT leaders are looking for solutions that can automate some of
these processes and give themselves a holistic view across these environments."Wanclouds' 2024 Cloud Outlook
also uncovered significant shifts in how organizations are deploying cloud applications this year. Additional
highlights include:Hybrid & multi-cloud environments prevail: 84% of organizations utilizing the cloud are now
deploying within hybrid or multi-cloud frameworks, signaling an embrace of diverse cloud infrastructure to meet
evolving needs. Just 9% are now deploying on a single private cloud, and 7% on a single public cloud.To view and
download Wanclouds' 2024 Cloud Outlook, clickhere.About WancloudsWanclouds is a leading multi-cloud SaaS,
solution, and managed service provider. It helps enterprises with cloud deployments, migrations, and protecting
their cloud infrastructure in time and cost-efficient ways. The company's cloud Migration as a Service (MaaS) and
Disaster Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) reduce the financial investment and remove the technical complexities
that halt or delay businesses from migrating on-premise to the cloud, moving across clouds, or setting up backup
and restore protection. Its SaaS-based automation suite VPC+ provides a single pane of glass for managing and
protecting multi-cloud environments through a centralized cross-cloud solution. Wanclouds is an AWS, Google
Cloud, IBM Cloud partner and is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA. For more information,
visit:https://www.wanclouds.net/Media                   ContactKyle              Austin,               Wanclouds,
6175640446,KYLE@BEANTOWNMV.COM, https://wanclouds.net                   View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prweb.com/releases/wanclouds-releases-highly-anticipated-2024-cloud-outlook-
302062675.htmlSOURCE Wanclouds


Load-Date: February 15, 2024


  
