

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                  Tonaquint Upgrades Infrastructure of Recently Acquired Oklahoma City Data Center




Tonaquint Upgrades Infrastructure of Recently Acquired Oklahoma City Data
                                  Center
                                                           PR Newswire
                                        January 17, 2024 Wednesday 10:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 462 words
Dateline: ST. GEORGE, Utah, Jan. 17, 2024

Body


PR NewswireClient orders are now being accepted for recently acquired facilityST. GEORGE, Utah, Jan. 17, 2024
/PRNewswire/ --Tonaquint, the premier data center solutions provider serving emerging markets, announced it is
upgrading the recently acquired EdgeX data center facility in Oklahoma City.

Tonaquint acquired the facility in late 2023 with plans to further enhance and expand it to build a market-leading
facility.Tonaquint is recommissioning the former EdgeX facility from a single-client environment to a multi-client one,
initially deploying a minimum of 2.5 MW of critical IT load. With an expansion capability of up to 12 MW, the facility
holds significant future upside and can deliver chilled water cooling for high-density workloads. Additional
enhancements include a refreshed client reception area and meeting rooms."This state-of-the-art facility will be
well-prepared for the demands of new clients and the increasing capacity requirements of AI workloads," said Terry
Morrison, COO and CTO of Tonaquint. "These enhancements further position this facility as one of the region's
most future-forward and resilient data centers."Located near the Will Rogers World Airport on a highly secure four-
acre campus, the purpose-built Tier III data center is 65,000 square feet, with two 10,000 square feet of data halls.
The facility is positioned for 100% uptime and can withstand tornado-force winds up to 310 mph. The data center
provides high-density capacity and geographic optionality for all client workload types. Tonaquint is taking client
orders now, for delivery starting in April of this year.Tonaquint is a specialized data center provider offering cloud,
colocation, backup, disaster recovery and network-as-a-service solutions to mid-market organizations through its
facilities in the Mountain West and Southwest regions of the United States. The Oklahoma City acquisition is in
addition to Tonaquint's existing platform in Boise, Idaho and St. George, Utah.For more information and to lease
space in Tonaquint's facilities, visitwww.tonaquint.com.About TonaquintTonaquint was founded in 2008 in St.
George, UT, and entered the Boise, ID, market in 2020 with the acquisition of Fiberpipe Data Centers, Inc.
Tonaquint provides a comprehensive set of data center solutions to a diverse and growing client base in the
technology, healthcare, financial services, and industrial sectors, in high growth and emerging markets. In
December 2022, DIF Capital Partners acquired Tonaquint, to enable Tonaquint to continue its growth.To learn more
and get connected, visittonaquint.com.                  View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-
releases/tonaquint-upgrades-infrastructure-of-recently-acquired-oklahoma-city-data-center-
302037032.htmlSOURCE Tonaquint


Load-Date: January 17, 2024

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
             Tonaquint Upgrades Infrastructure of Recently Acquired Oklahoma City Data Center




