

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
   ConnectWise Supercharges Startups Globally with 2024 PitchIT Accelerator Program: Applications Now Open
                       PitchIT Enables Businesses to Unleash Innovation, Showca....




 ConnectWise Supercharges Startups Globally with 2024 PitchIT Accelerator
  Program: Applications Now Open; PitchIT Enables Businesses to Unleash
     Innovation, Showcase Solutions at IT Nation Connect, Integrate with
                   ConnectWise, and Win a $70,000 Grant
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                            February 1, 2024 Thursday 6:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT; CONTESTS/AWARDS
Length: 1035 words

Body


TAMPA, Fla., Feb. 01, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- ConnectWise, the world’s leading software company
dedicated to the success of technology solution providers (TSPs), today announced the highly anticipated launch of
the 2024 PitchIT Accelerator Program, a prestigious worldwide competition that invites companies to highlight their
innovative solutions and be discovered for their next-generation technology with the potential to revolutionize the
industry.

ConnectWise PitchIT 2024, now in its sixth year, is built to unleash the global power of innovation for the IT channel
ecosystem. It is a program that enables startup organizations to discover growth paths through the ConnectWise
comprehensive accelerator program, which offers grant money, access to the IT Nation community, marketplace,
and expert guidance. This program aims to help platform integrators achieve product-market fit, tap into a hungry
channel of adopters, and unlock the SMB channel as a lucrative growth market.

“In the span of five years, we have had the privilege of hosting 62 companies in this esteemed competition, with last
year alone witnessing the participation of representatives from six different countries," stated Jason Magee, CEO at
ConnectWise. "We were truly exhilarated by the exceptional talent showcased by the finalists and Thread, the
deserving first-place winner. Their innovative, collaborative AI (Artificial Intelligence) solution for MSPs (Managed
Service Providers) left an impression on judges, attendees, and the IT channel ecosystem. As we eagerly anticipate
the applications for the 2024 program, we remain committed to fueling new innovations and integrations that bring
added value to our esteemed partner community.”

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
  ConnectWise Supercharges Startups Globally with 2024 PitchIT Accelerator Program: Applications Now Open
                      PitchIT Enables Businesses to Unleash Innovation, Showca....

“We are thrilled to witness the tremendous excitement and pride surrounding the remarkable growth of the PitchIT
program, as well as its expansion with applicants from around the world,” said Sean Lardo, Economy Evangelism
Director at ConnectWise. “ConnectWise continues to make significant investments in startup technology companies
globally, further exemplifying our unwavering dedication to fostering economic success. With boots on the ground,
we are committed to providing the necessary resources and support to empower our valued partners through the
program and drive their continued growth and prosperity.”

PitchIT exemplifies the company’s commitment to providing a platform for entrepreneurs to highlight their talents
globally. The IT channel industry presents a vibrant global market that eagerly embraces innovative solutions from
startups and emerging companies worldwide. ConnectWise actively encourages participation from every continent
to apply.

ConnectWise offers customized support to help applicants achieve product-market fit and gain traction among the
global IT Solution Provider community, whether in EMEA, APAC, or the Americas. The ConnectWise team will work
closely with them to understand the unique challenges and opportunities for applications, ensuring that they have
the necessary resources and guidance to succeed. Additionally, the company’s global network and marketplace
connect businesses with potential users and growth opportunities, enabling growth and expansion into new
markets.

Selected applicants will have the opportunity to work closely with respected industry experts from ConnectWise and
other organizations. Through comprehensive business accelerator sessions covering sales, marketing, value
proposition, market readiness, and more, contestants will receive invaluable guidance to refine their respective
offerings. The culmination of this journey will be a live-streamed PitchIT competition later this year, where three
finalists will be selected.

Since being recognized as PitchIT winners and joining the ConnectWise ecosystem, the growth experienced by
these exceptional entrepreneurs has been nothing short of remarkable, with Annual Recurring Revenue soaring up
to an impressive $125,000.

"For any startup looking to collaborate with MSPs, ConnectWise's PitchIT program is the obvious starting point,"
said Bobby Jacobs, Head of Growth at Thread. "The PitchIT journey prepares and propels startups to succeed in
the MSP industry and provides an unparalleled opportunity to build connections. These connections continue to
thrive, and we support each other in navigating the MSP space."

"I would highly recommend the PitchIT program to any startup/emerging product company targeting service
providers,” Kamalesh Srikanth, Head of Customer Experience at AlertOps. “The grand prize was great, but the
lessons learned, and friends made were truly invaluable."

Interested participants can submit their applications online until April 30, 2024. PitchIT finalists will be selected from
the pool of contestants to present their solutions on the grand stage at IT Nation Connect 2024, taking place in
Orlando, Florida in November. The ultimate prize for the winner is a $70,000 grant, providing invaluable support to
propel their business forward.

ConnectWise offers global opportunities for startups and emerging companies in the MSP industry. With
customized regional support, access to a network of over 45,000 partners worldwide, and comprehensive
empowerment and support, ConnectWise helps entrepreneurs achieve product-market fit and gain traction in their
local and global markets.

To      learn  more     about     the    PitchIT         Accelerator     Program       and     apply,     please     visit
https://www.connectwise.com/theitnation/pitchit.

About ConnectWiseConnectWise is the world's leading software company dedicated to the success of IT solution
providers (TSPs) through unmatched software, services, community, and marketplace of integrations. ConnectWise
offers an innovative, integrated, and security-centric platform—Asio™—which provides unmatched flexibility that

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
  ConnectWise Supercharges Startups Globally with 2024 PitchIT Accelerator Program: Applications Now Open
                      PitchIT Enables Businesses to Unleash Innovation, Showca....

fuels profitable, long-term growth for partners. ConnectWise enables TSPs to drive business efficiency with
automation, IT documentation, and data management capabilities and increase revenue with remote monitoring,
cybersecurity, and backup and disaster recovery technologies. For more information, visit connectwise.com.

Media Contact: Amanda Lee VP, Corporate Communications Amanda.lee@connectwise.com


Load-Date: February 1, 2024


  
