

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                                Xiilab Unveils Cutting-Edge AI Technologies at NVIDIA GTC




               Xiilab Unveils Cutting-Edge AI Technologies at NVIDIA GTC
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           March 18, 2024 Monday 10:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 512 words
Dateline: SAN JOSE, Calif. and SEOUL, South Korea, March 18, 2024

Body


PR NewswireIntroduction of 'astrago' equipped with GPU usage time prediction technology Showcase of OpenUSD
digital twin application with NVIDIA OmniverseSAN JOSE, Calif. and SEOUL, South Korea, March 18, 2024
/PRNewswire/ -- AI video analysis company Xiilab, led by CEO Lee Woo-young, announced its participation in the
global AI conference, NVIDIA GTC, held in San Jose, California, USA, and online from March 18th to 21st, 2024.

 Xiilab plans to showcase its AI technology at GTC through three main products: AI video analysis service
('VidiGo'), synthetic data generation solution ('X-GEN'), and GPU orchestration solution ('astrago').The first product,
'VidiGo,' is a cloud-based AI video analysis service that accurately summarizes the core contents of a video without
watching it. It can also quickly search for desired video scenes. Users can easily make a database of characters,
objects, and dialogues in the video, which significantly improves work efficiency in the media industry.The second
product, 'X-GEN,' is a solution for generating synthetic data for AI model training. Especially in areas like disaster
response or defense, there is a shortage of data for AI training. X-GEN can provide synthetic data which can
replace real data in such rare conditions, even maximizing AI training performance.Xiilab has been applying 'X-
GEN' in the digital twin field using theNVIDIA Omniverse. platform, which provides 3D-workflow and simulation
capabilities. Since 2023, Xiilab has been successfully leading digital twin construction projects for global
companies.Finally, Xiilab will introduce its GPU efficiency enhancement solution 'astrago' at GTC. Equipped with AI
training time prediction technology and AI model management capabilities, 'astrago' is designed to optimize GPU
utilization. It predicts the usage time of GPUs and combines AI models suitable for specific services, which can
maximize GPU efficiency. Users can significantly reduce the costly expenses associated with GPU usage.Jeong-
hwan Chae, Vice President of Xiilab, stated, "At GTC, we look forward to introducing Xiilab's advanced AI
technologies and solutions to the global market, and contributing to the expansion of AI's applicability across
various industries."About XiilabFounded in 2010, Xiilab (KOSDAQ 189330) is a specialist in AI video analysis.
Recognized for its technology specialized in the analysis, processing, and utilization of large-volume video data,
Xiilab was listed on the KOSDAQ in February 2021.Its main business areas include real-time large-scale video
analysis through AI (VidiGo, X-AIVA), generation of synthetic data for AI training (X-Labeller, X-GEN), and GPU
tooling solutions (astrago). Xiilab has secured a competitive edge in the appliance business, selling integrated
solutions powered by high-performance GPUs.ContactsJaemin Song, Business Strategy Team,
XIILABjm.song@xiilab.com         View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-
releases/xiilab-unveils-cutting-edge-ai-technologies-at-nvidia-gtc-302091201.htmlSOURCE Xiilab

                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
                        Xiilab Unveils Cutting-Edge AI Technologies at NVIDIA GTC


Load-Date: March 18, 2024


  
