

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 16
     Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                         China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....




 Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National
Security Challenges: Outpacing China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony
 by Jamil Jaffer, Founder and Executive Director, National Security Institute
   and NSI Cyber and Tech Center, Antonin Scalia Law School at George
                             Mason University
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                             January 18, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. SENATE DOCUMENTS
Length: 11536 words

Body


I.Introduction

Chairman Brown, Ranking Member Scott, and Members of the Committee: thank you for inviting me here today to
discuss the national security challenges facing our nation when it comes the pursuit of emerging technologies and
specifically, the very real threat posed by People's Republic of China (PRC) under the leadership of the Chinese
Communist Party (CCP) in this domain. n2

I want to thank Chairman Brown and Ranking Member Scott for holding this hearing in the context of the Banking
Committee's work and oversight responsibilities and, in particular, I want to thank both of you for your leadership in
highlighting the significant relationship between national security and emerging technologies, particularly as we
think about investment and innovation in the context of the threat posed by the PRC. As you both know, China is
the key economic and national security challenge facing our nation going forward and our nation's ability to rapidly
innovate is--and will remain--central to our ability to effectively address this challenge. I also want to thank both of
you for your leadership in moving forward bipartisan legislative initiatives on challenges related to China, including
addressing the very real national security threat posed by Fentanyl coming from the PRC through our southern
border. I hope this hearing will offer us the opportunity to have a candid and frank discussion on these important
matters.

II.The Threat from the People's Republic of China and its Relationship to Technological Innovation and Emerging
Technologies

The defining national security challenge facing the United States today is threat posed by a rising China, a nation
that not only oppresses its own people, but which also seeks to expand that repression beyond its borders, both
within its own region as well as across the globe. One need only look at the PRC's treatment of Muslim Uyghurs in
the Xinjiang region--which two successive U.S. administrations have determined constitutes genocide and crimes
against humanity n3--its repression of dissent in Hong Kong and Tibet, its military and economic threats against

                                                                                                Page 2 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

Taiwan, its belligerent actions against other U.S. allies in the region, including the Philippines, its export of
surveillance and other repressive technologies across the globe, its theft of core intellectual property from private
sector companies in the United States and allied nations, its growing cyber infiltrations of U.S. and allied critical
infrastructure, its attempts to consolidate its control over key critical minerals and strategic metals and to withhold
access to them, its belligerent posture to America and allied national security priorities in a wide range of regions,
and its extortion of dozens of countries under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), to see just a few examples of the
massive and growing threat that the China poses to the United States, our allies, and a host of other nations across
the globe. And this doesn't even account for China's growing political, economic, and military relationships with
other global repressors like Russia, Iran, and North Korea.

At the core of this national security threat that the PRC poses to the United States, as well as our global competition
with China for supremacy--whether in the economic, political, military, or social spheres--is technological innovation,
including access to and control over critical emerging technologies, particularly artificial intelligence capabilities.
n4 In recent decades, the PRC has made aggressive moves to build its own technological innovation base and now
seeks to expand its capabilities. n5 Much of this effort by the PRC initially began by actively seeking to dominate
the manufacturing market for technology goods, producing equipment at costs well below those achievable in most
other economies. n6 This was achieved, in significant part, by exploiting the PRC's theft of U.S. intellectual property
at industrial scale--referred to as the greatest transfer of wealth in modern human history n7-- which was then
leveraged to create an entire industry of state-owned and state-influenced enterprises that, when combined today,
generate a tremendous amount of the technology products and capabilities sold around the globe, including
producing goods on behalf of a number of highly innovative American companies, competing with others, and
replacing or coopting yet others in the global market. n8 Worse still, the PRC is now going well beyond
manufacturing-at-scale and is creating innovation on top of this stolen IP and securing its access to data, as it
recognizes that whichever nation dominates the technology revolution--particularly in emerging technology areas
like quantum computing, biotechnology, and artificial intelligence (the latter of which is particularly data reliant)--
will likely also win the larger geopolitical competition. n9

A key aspect of the PRC's effort to lead in the technology domain is its centralized planning efforts that have been
in place for well over a decade, including its Made in China 2025 line of effort ("PRC 2025"), a "broad set of
industrial plans that aim to boost competitiveness by advancing China's position in the global manufacturing value
chain, 'leapfrogging' into emerging technologies, and reducing reliance on foreign firms." n10 This effort aims to
enable China to "make major technology breakthroughs, lead innovation in specific industries, and set global
standards" by 2035 and "[l]ead global manufacturing and innovation with a competitive position in advanced
technology and industrial systems" by 2049, with key areas of focus including next generation IT and
telecommunications capabilities, high performance computing, advanced robotics, and artificial intelligence. n11
And in the critically important AI domain, China released a plan back in 2017--long before the public advent of
highly-capable generative AI in 2022 and even well prior to the enactment of the U.S. National AI Initiative Act of
2020--to "lead the world in AI by 2030." n12 While ostensibly emphasizing domestic development in these national
plans, it is clear that the PRC plans to continue to rely on the "acquisition, absorption, and adaptation of foreign
technology by PRC entities that recast these capabilities as their own," n13 and then build upon these stolen
technologies to create additional innovation.

China's acquisition of U.S. and allied emerging technology takes place through a range of vectors: (1) outright theft
of intellectual property; n14 (2) forced technology transfer from companies seeking to enter the Chinese market;
n15 (3) requiring new market entrants to establish joint ventures with PRC companies; n16 (4) requiring sensitive IP
to be kept in China; n17 (5) tax incentives to get production and Randamp;D moved to China; n18 (6) acquisition of
American and allied companies with sensitive technologies directly or through bankruptcy proceedings; n19 (7)
corporate and government partnerships with U.S. companies, universities, and individual experts or academics,
including through PRC talent programs and educational pipeline work; n20 and (8) joining and setting the agenda
for international standards setting bodies. n21 And China has doubled down on these efforts, making clear that it
will continue to exploit its foreign research connections, use domestic regulatory measures and influence abroad in
areas like antitrust, IP, and international standards, n22 as well as make massive investments into key emerging
technology areas, including quantum computing, robotics, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity, n23 both

                                                                                                Page 3 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

directly and by offering low-interest and no-interest loans and massive state-driven subsidies--totaling well-over a
trillion dollars--to enable its companies to compete more favorably in global markets, n24 while also using board
seats influence corporate decision-making. n25

We know also that China is actively working to get other nations to put Chinese national champion technology
capabilities--from telecoms to chips--at the heart of their networks, n26 and that it continues to build out its STEM
workforce, proactively recruiting leading STEM players from around the world, n27 and, having already passed the
U.S. in the number of annual Ph.Ds awarded many years back, some estimate that the PRC may annually graduate
nearly double the number of STEM Ph.Ds as the U.S. in the near future. n28 All of these efforts are also buttressed
by China's longer-term efforts to secure its access to critical minerals, strategic metals, and energy resources, from
production to processing, n29 and its parallel efforts to exclude U.S. and allied partners from access to such
resources, all of which are critical to our technological and industrial innovation base. n30

III.The Need for a Strong U.S. Government Response to the Emerging Technology Threat from China

The United States has thus far used a variety of tools to push back on unfair PRC technology practices, including IP
theft and forced technology transfers, n31 "ramped up law enforcement to counter China's theft of U.S. IP,
restricted certain PRC firms from U.S. infrastructure, started to scrutinize China's role in federally funded research,"
n32 and focused efforts on stopping the PRC's exploitation of U.S. technology researchers in academia and
industry. n33 The Administration has also sought to work both independently and with our allies, like the EU, to limit
technology transfers to China in critical areas like aerospace technologies n34 and semiconductors, n35 and has
begun the process of identifying categories of outbound investments that ought be reported or restricted. n36
Congress, for its part, has provided for additional review of Chinese transactions in the United States, n37
enhanced American export control laws, n38 and made major new RandD and production investments and
commitments to fund new efforts in areas like semiconductors, n39 critical minerals, n40 basic science research,
n41 OPEN-RAN, n42 and other emerging technologies under the CHIPS and Science Act. n43

At the same time, significantly more needs to be done if we are to successfully and effectively take on the threat
that China poses to our economic and national security.

First, when it comes to government action, there is no question that the United States government to needs to
expand its efforts and provide the requisite funding necessary to support key basic science research, including
providing appropriations for some of the key programs authorized in the CHIPS and Science Act, n44 as this type of
funding has historically supported major breakthroughs in areas like biosecurity, high-performance and accelerated
computing, quantum computing, and artificial intelligence, to name just a few. n45 For those concerned that such
funding might involve the government too directly in private markets, it is worth noting that the kind of core capability
development driven by basic science research is often well removed from the goods that actually enter the market,
and government funding has long played a central role in providing support for the kind innovation that is
fundamental to our security interests, from defense technology to telecommunications. Such early-stage base
funding is particularly important when the applied business uses cases may not be obvious enough to attract core
private funding. n46

Second, to ensure the U.S. is able to effectively compete with China, the government should provide significant tax
and other economic incentive to startups, as well as other companies that can rapidly and massively scale up
(therefore effectively compete with Chinese national champions)--and remove existing regulatory and other
barriers--for increased private basic and applied RandD investment in critical emerging technology areas like: (1)
high-performance and accelerated computing; (2) quantum technology; (3) cloud and edge computing capabilities,
particularly for the warfighter; (4) AI/ML capabilities, including generative AI, as well as capabilities to enhance the
trust, safety, and security of AI-enabled systems; (5) design and production, in the United States and allied nations,
of both commodity and bleeding-edge semiconductors, particularly for artificial intelligence and other critical
applications; (6) production and processing, in the United States and allied nations, of critical minerals necessary
for national security and technology applications; and (7) enhanced cybersecurity efforts and protection of
intellectual property.

                                                                                                Page 4 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

Third, while incentivizing such investments, U.S. and allied governments (across both the legislative and executive
branches), should also ensure that they are not actively taking action--whether through overregulation or otherwise-
-that would undermine the ability of key American and allied companies to scale their capabilities, disincentivize
innovation and investment in critical emerging technologies, or take advantage of new innovations in a manner that
allows us to actively stay ahead of the PRC. This means, for example, not adopting significant new regulatory or
administrative policies--including adopting new laws or gerrymandering enforcement efforts to focus on a narrow set
of technology leaders--that would undermine the ability of the United States to effectively compete on a global scale
and thereby undermine our economic and national security. This also includes, for example, modifying longstanding
and highly effective antitrust laws to intentionally target some of the most innovative and scalable companies in the
AI space, n47 particularly given that there is no clear reason to believe existing law can't address any legitimate
concerns. n48 Indeed, requiring successful American technology companies to give foreign competitors deep
access to their hardware and software, bypassing traditional security controls, could create a massive nightmare
and undermine our economic and national security. n49 Ensuring we have the right incentives in place also means
recognizing that overaggressive or selective enforcement of existing laws in other domains--including the
environmental and sanctions context--can undermine larger innovation policy efforts. n50 To the extent the
government has discretion in how the laws or regulatory policies are to be enforced, it should be done in an
evenhanded manner and should account for the innovation impacts of such enforcement as well.

Fourth, it is critical that the United States both create a STEM-capable workforce here in the United States. In doing
so, Congress funding some of the key workforce-related programs authorized in the CHIPS and Science Act, n51
and should consider redirecting existing resources and providing new resources to states in the form of block
grants, n52 and encouraging them to deploy these grants through public schools, public charter schools (some of
which have highly innovative curricula in the technology domain), n53 and, as appropriate, private institutions. This
effort must be partnered with programs that provide incentives innovators and entrepreneurs to stay, develop new
technology, and build businesses in the United States over the long-term, including tax benefits for building new
startups in the U.S. and hiring American workers to develop code. Of course, this is a long-term plan, and the fact of
the matter is that we need to fill the significant existing technology worker gap now. n54 To do so, we must
fundamentally reform our broken immigration system to ensure that we are recruiting and retaining the best and
brightest minds the world has to offer. Our current immigration system makes little sense, in that it allows a wide
range of undergraduate and graduate students to benefit from our world-class higher education system, but then--
with exception of the small number that are able to obtain H-1B visas or otherwise stay in the United States--forces
them to return home and build their businesses abroad. n55 Indeed, this poorly thought-out policy actually forces
American companies to hire high-skilled workers abroad and deprives our own economy of the benefits of their
employment here, including the tax revenues and spending of these high-skilled, high-wage workers. n56 There is
no reason why--other than the obvious political challenges--the United States couldn't create a much more sensible
immigration system that prioritizes those with the key skills we need and provides for a stringent pre-admission
vetting to address potential IP theft and foreign intelligence concerns. Such a system could provide both a path to
work and permanent residency for those that build successful businesses here. Such a system would stand in
sharp contrast to the current lottery system which provides a level of randomness that makes little, if any, sense.
Examples of ideas that might move us in the right direction can be found in a recent CSIS report, n57 and in more
limited form in earlier versions of the CHIPS and Science Act, as well as in other proposals that have garnered
bipartisan support. n58 The ongoing failure to address the very real problem created by our immigration system
today, as well as the long-term challenge in our educational system when it comes to STEM education is, without a
doubt, creating significant national security risk at a time when the U.S. can least afford it, particularly as our
adversaries look to take advantage.

Fifth, the government could do more to identify, target, and limit strategic Chinese investment in the United States.
Our current laws remain challenged in addressing the threat from China, because they apply in a "country-agnostic
[manner], treating investment from foreign adversary countries like the PRC the same as that of any other country"
and also don't provide jurisdiction over certain critical technologies and joint ventures, among other things. n59 The
China Select Committee in the House of Representatives has recently suggested some potential changes to
existing laws that are worth taking seriously. n60

                                                                                                Page 5 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

IV. The Critical Role of Private Actors in Emerging Technology Innovation and the Need for Government and
Industry to Work Collaboratively to Protect Our National Security

Today, private sector research and development funding represents 70% of all RandD expenditures in the United
States, n61 with technology companies leading the way, making up seven of the top ten RandD spenders, including
all of the top five. n62 It is this expenditure on core RandD--along with the ability to rapidly iterate and innovate,
enabled by a permissive economic and legal environment, and the availability of significant amounts of venture and
growth capital, as well as a highly- skilled workforce--that makes the U.S. the technology innovation hub of the
globe.

These capabilities are not only at the heart of America's economic success, they are also a core reason why our
national defense capabilities remain relatively unmatched across the globe today. As such, rather than limiting the
capabilities of the top RandD investors in the U.S. to continue to make such investments--including the technology
companies that are in the top five RandD spenders in the nation--it is precisely this RandD spend that the U.S.
government and our allies ought be encouraging companies to scale up. Likewise, as noted above, to ensure the
U.S. remains a leader in innovation and investment, we must keep in place and expand on the kind of economic
incentives and regulatory structures that have worked so well thus far, and must avoid the temptation to artificially
restrain successful innovators--whether startups or otherwise--in the absence of actual, demonstrable bad behavior.

There is also critical room for private action as well. Free and open societies grounded in economic liberty, like the
United States, are the engine that drives technological innovation and the expansion of economic opportunities for
people around the globe. The fact of the matter is that financial investors and capital allocators (whether venture
capitalists, private equity investors, or their respective limited partners), as well as the entrepreneurs, startups, and
established companies building innovative capabilities in critical areas of emerging technologies, all benefit from
being in the United States and key allied countries, particularly because of the economic and political systems that
undergird our nations.

As such, it is reasonable to expect that the financial investors, entrepreneurs, and companies that benefit from
these advantages, while seeking significant returns for their investors and powerful capabilities for their customers,
ought be incentivized to voluntarily take action, consistent with their own investment and corporate mandates and
objectives, to invest in innovation and capabilities that support the United States and our allies, including those
capabilities that will enhance the collective defense of our nations. This includes actively promoting innovation in
key emerging technologies, like artificial intelligence, cloud and edge computing, quantum computing,
cybersecurity, and underlying capabilities like critical minerals, semiconductors, high performance and accelerated
computing, as well as capabilities that enhance the trust, safety, and security of such technologies. Likewise, such
financial investors and companies that work in critical emerging technology areas ought also be incentivized to
voluntarily avoid investments and transfer of capabilities or technology to adversary nations. Such efforts undermine
American and allied technological advantage and harm our economic and national security, and thus make it harder
to protect the very system that permits the innovation and capital allocation that these organizations rely upon in the
daily course of their businesses.

Unfortunately, there is evidence that suggests American investors and companies are making significant
investments in leading-edge Chinese companies, including in the artificial intelligence arena. n63 Indeed, by one
metric, U.S. investors "accounted for nearly a fifth of investment deals in Chinese AI/ML companies from 2015 to
2021." n64 Countering the PRC's effort to establish technology supremacy also requires starving the CCP of its
economic lifeblood, capital from abroad, particularly in the form of U.S. investment capital which, while perhaps a
small relative amount, nonetheless provides a key signaling function to others. Given the alignment of interests, it is
reasonable to expect that some of amount of voluntary action might be sufficient to address some of the key
challenges in the current investment environment.

To the extent private action alone does not achieve these goals immediately--whether on investment dollars or
technology provision--the government ought be cautious not to reach immediately for the regulatory stick. Rather,
additional carrots, like the tax and research and development incentives noted above, could have some success in

                                                                                                Page 6 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

achieving governmental objectives, as they help ensure that the interests of all actors are fully aligned. Forcing
companies or investors to do things that are against their financial interests simply ensures that rational economic
actors will seek ways around such rules, complying with the specific provisions required, but also taking action
where law or regulation permits. It is therefore critical that government and industry work together to create the right
tax and regulatory incentives to ensure that American and allied companies invest their money here (and in allied
nations) to create much-needed capacity and to ensure that we have the skilled workers necessary to build and
maintain this capacity. Moreover, where government does need to act to specifically bar certain investment or
technology export activity--potentially even by regulation or statute in critical industries at the heart of U.S. national
security like high performance computing, semiconductors, critical minerals, cloud computing, artificial
intelligence, and quantum computing--clear rules of the road are critical. n65 Likewise, the government ought be
sure to avoid using taxpayer dollars to companies that are spending capital on advanced capabilities in competitor
nations or transferring advanced technology to such nations, like the PRC. n66

This also means the government needs to take action to open new markets and create the right kind of structures
that allow and encourage innovative American business to not only sell to or manufacture in nations that are
already aligned with the United States, but also to do so with nations that we would like to see increasingly align
with us. The government also ought work with industry to ensure that low-cost capital is available for critical
emerging technology companies. n67

Seeking address the national security threat presented by China standing alone--whether as individual nations or as
existing blocs like the EU or the African Union--is also simply untenable. It is critical that the U.S. and our allies work
hand-in-hand to address these challenges and stave off the depredations of the PRC. We must find a way to make
common cause with our longstanding allies in both Europe and in the Indo-Pacific, as well as the Middle East and
Africa, and we must avoid allowing nations that are notionally in our allied bloc from shifting their allegiances and
policies towards the PRC. n68

Likewise, as we think about the role of allies and the relationship of our most innovative private sector actors taking
advantage of opportunities in the overseas markets, it is critical that we discourage our allies from implementing
legislation that undermines the ability of American companies to fairly compete. n69 For example, nations in Europe
and the EU itself have sought to enact and implement aggressive regulatory legislation, including the General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR), the Digital Markets Act (DMA), the Digital Services Act (DSA), and the new AI Act,
as well as a range of data sovereignty measures, in ways that makes it difficult for American innovation to reach
Europe and limit the access of innovative US industry to the European market. Similar challenges have appeared in
the Indo-Pacific as well. n70 The record is clear that these efforts--at least in Europe--are designed not to enhance
competition but to limit it. n71 Given this backdrop, it is incumbent upon the Executive Branch to more aggressively
press our allies to align efforts across the Atlantic, including amongst Five Eyes nations, and ensure that we are not
taking actions that undermine our collective efforts. Moreover, as some advocate for the government to consider
similar regulatory or legislative action in the United States, n72 it is worth noting that it is the very lack of such
efforts that have made the United States so innovative as compared to Europe on a range of metrics, including
GDP growth, n73 the creation of highly successful, highly innovative businesses, n74 and building private
companies whose technology innovations have a massive benefit for national and economic security. n75 Indeed,
such measures make little sense at a time when the key threat to our nations collectively, comes not from within the
alliance, but from a rising superpower, like China, that is actively hostile to the world order crafted by the alliance.
Indeed, there is support amongst the publics in the U.S. and in our allied nations for increased collaboration on
technology and security issues with respect China. n76

V. The Critical Transformative Capability of Artificial Intelligence.

AI has the potential to have a massively transformative effect on human society, raising all boats, creating new
innovation and capability, and allowing a broad range of workers to do ordinary tasks significantly more efficiently,
while also freeing innovators to create even more productive tools and capabilities. n77

                                                                                                 Page 7 of 16
     Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                         China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

While much has been written about the potential of AI to cause significant harm, key claims have been so
overwrought and lacking in substance as to undermine their own credibility n78 or have later been determined to be
inaccurate. n79

The best approach to protecting U.S. economic and national security in the context of AI--a rapidly moving area of
technology innovation where a key consideration is ensuring that government regulation does not crush innovation
and deprive society of AI's potentially massive benefits--is one that allows innovation to flourish, stepping cautiously
to address legitimate concerns where regulation may be warranted and appropriate, based on traditional
considerations like demonstrable market failures.

As such, rather than rushing to broad-based regulation, as the European Parliament is doing with the AI Act, n80
imposing significant burdens that may not be directly regulatory but are likely to have a regulatory impact, n81 or
directly limiting AI capabilities or applications, n82 the wiser approach, consistent with the American approach to
innovation, would be to prioritize the voluntary adoption of industry-driven frameworks, before moving to a more
traditional regulatory posture. n83 To that end, encouraging those closest to the actual creation of the technology--
the companies, innovators, and investors at the cutting-edge of AI--to craft potential frameworks and industry best
practices that might guide the trusted, safe, and secure development and implementation of these technologies, is
likely the best approach in the near term. Indeed, providing safe harbors for the implementation of industry best
practices and compliance with voluntary, industry-led standards might be a good place for Congress and the
Administration to start as they consider potential further action.

VI. Conclusion

For at least a half century, if not significantly longer, the United States has been the world's leading engine of
innovation and investment, driving much of the growth and development of the global information infrastructure,
including the Internet as we know it today, and developing the leading-edge technologies that are creating to the
new and novel capabilities of today, like generative artificial intelligence. This innovation engine has benefitted the
United States economically, politically, and militarily, and has provided the very capabilities that have cemented the
United States as a global superpower. Today, however, the PRC poses a major strategic challenge to America and
our allies across the entire economic and national security landscape. There is little chance that standing alone, any
one nation or current bloc of nations will successfully be able to confront and beat China when it comes to
economics and (soon) military might. Nor will the any government be able to do it without the cooperation of its
private sector. Given the centrality of technology innovation to our economic, political, and military success going
forward--and the critical role of the private sector, including investors, innovators, entrepreneurs, and companies
alike, in such innovation--it is critical that the United States act now to quickly and significantly shore up our ability to
ensure we remains the technology capital of the globe, and that we and our allies, working together, are able to
leverage joint technology innovation, research, and development, as well as combined production capabilities to
gain a significant measure of economic independence from the PRC. Given our leading position today and the clear
effort by China to try to take the pole position, if we fail to maintain this advantage now and into the future, we will
have no one to blame but ourselves.

n1 Jamil N. Jaffer currently serves as Founder and Executive Director of the National Security Institute and the NSI
Cyber and Tech Center and as an Assistant Professor of Law and Director of the National Security Law and Policy
and Cyber, Intelligence and National Security Programs at the Antonin Scalia Law School at George Mason
University. Mr. Jaffer is also a Venture Partner at Paladin Capital Group, a leading global multi-stage investor that
identifies, supports and invests in innovative companies that develop promising, early-stage technologies to
address the critical cyber and advanced technological needs of both commercial and government customers.
Among other things, Mr. Jaffer previously served as Chief Counsel and Senior Advisor to the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, Senior Counsel to the House Intelligence Committee, Associate Counsel to President George
W. Bush in the White House, and Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General for National Security in the U.S.
Department of Justice. Mr. Jaffer is testifying before the Senate Banking Committee in his personal and individual
capacity and is not testifying on behalf of any organization or entity, including but not limited to any current or former
employer.

                                                                                                Page 8 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

n2 Significant portions of this testimony have been drawn in whole or in part from an NSI Decision Memo entitled
Addressing the National Security Threat of Chinese Technological Innovation by Jamil N. Jaffer published in July
2023. Because much of this testimony is drawn directly from that paper, citations to that paper and quotation marks
for portions of this testimony drawn from that paper have been omitted, including where significant portions are
excerpted verbatim. Professor Jaffer would like to thank Devlin Birnie, Jessica Jones, Harrison McClintock, and
Alex Tokie for their excellent research and editing assistance with the original paper. The original paper can be
found      at:      https://nationalsecurity.gmu.edu/addressing-the-national-security-threat-of-chinese-technological-
innovation-2/.

n3 See Michael R. Pompeo, Press Statement: Determination of the Secretary of State on Atrocities in Xinjiang,
United States Department of State (Jan. 19, 2021), available online at https://2017-2021.state.gov/determination-of-
the-secretary-of-state-on-atrocities-in-xinjiang/ ("After careful examination of the available facts, I have determined
that since at least March 2017, the People's Republic of China (PRC), under the direction and control of the
Chinese Communist Party (CCP), has committed crimes against humanity against the predominantly Muslim
Uyghurs and other members of ethnic and religious minority groups in Xinjiang....In addition, after careful
examination of the available facts, I have determined that the PRC, under the direction and control of the CCP, has
committed genocide against the predominantly Muslim Uyghurs and other ethnic and religious minority groups in
Xinjiang. I believe this genocide is ongoing, and that we are witnessing the systematic attempt to destroy Uyghurs
by the Chinese party-state."); see also, e.g., United States Department of State, 2021 Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices: China (Includes Hong Kong, Macau, and Tibet) (Apr. 12, 2022), available online at
https://www.state.gov/reports/2021-country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/china/ ("Genocide and crimes
against humanity occurred during the year against predominantly Muslim Uyghurs and members of other ethnic and
religious minority groups in Xinjiang.")

n4 See, e.g., The White House, National Security Strategy (Oct. 2022), at 23, available online at
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Biden- Harris-Administrations-National-Security-Strategy-
10.2022.pdf ("The PRC is the only competitor with both the intent to reshape the international order and,
increasingly, the economic, diplomatic, military, and technological power to do it...It is using its technological
capacity and increasing influence over international institutions to create more permissive conditions for its own
authoritarian model, and to mold global technology use and norms to privilege its interests and values."); Xi
Jingping, Speech to Members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the Chinese Academy of Engineering, and the
National Congress of China Association for Science and Technology (May 28, 2021) (translated by Zichen Wang),
available online at https://www.pekingnology.com/p/xi-jinpings-speech-on- science-and?s=r ("[S]cientific and
technological innovation has become the main battlefield of the international strategic game, and the competition
around the commanding heights of science and technology is unprecedentedly fierce.").

n5 See, e.g., Tarun Chhabra, et. al, Executive Summary - Global China: Assessing China's Growing Role in the
World, Brookings Institution (Apr. 2020), available online at https://www.brookings.edu/articles/global-china-
technology/ ("China's rapid technological advances are playing a leading role in contemporary geopolitical
competition....While the U.S. has maintained its position as the technologically dominant power for decades, China
has made enormous investments and implemented policies that have contributed significantly to its economic
growth, military capability, and global influence. In some areas, China has eclipsed, or is on the verge of eclipsing,
the United States -- particularly in the rapid deployment of certain technologies."); Bloomberg News, How China
Aims to Counter US 'Containment' Efforts in Tech, Washington Post (Mar. 30, 2023), available online at
https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2023/03/30/explainer-how-china-aims-to-counter-us-containment-efforts-
in-tech/cea71f0c-cf1d-11ed-8907-156f0390d081_story.html).

n6 See Wayne M. Morrison, China's Economic Rise: History, Trends, Challenges, and Implications for the United
States,     Congressional     Research     Service    (June     25,  2019),    at   23,     available  online    at
https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/RL/RL33534 ("China's abundance of low-cost labor has made it
internationally competitive in many low-cost, labor-intensive manufactures. As a result, manufactured products
constitute a significant share of China's trade. A substantial amount of China's imports is comprised of parts and

                                                                                                 Page 9 of 16
     Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                         China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

components that are assembled into finished products, such as consumer electronic products and computers, and
then exported.")

n7 See, e.g., Keith B. Alexander, Prepared Statement of GEN (Ret) Keith B. Alexander, A Borderless Battle:
Defending Against Cyber Threats, House Committee on Homeland Security (Mar. 22, 2017), available online at
https://www.congress.gov/115/meeting/house/105741/witnesses/HHRG-115-HM00-Wstate-AlexanderK-
20170322.pdf ("[T]he ongoing theft of intellectual property from American companies...continues to represent the
greatest transfer of wealth in human history."); Senator Carl Levin, Opening Statement of Chairman Carl Levin in
Hearing to Receive Testimony on U.S. Strategic Command and U.S. Cyber Command in Review of the Defense
Authorization Request for Fiscal Year 2013 and the Future Years Defense Program, Senate Armed Services
Committee (Mar. 27, 2012), at 3, available online at https://www.armed-services.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/12-
19%20-%203-27-12.pdf ("General Alexander has stated that the relentless industrial espionage being waged
against U.S. industry and Government chiefly by China constitute 'the largest transfer of wealth in history.'").

n8 See, e.g., Special Competitive Studies Project, Generative AI: The Future of Innovation Power (Oct. 2023), at 3
and     n.6   (collecting   sources),   10-12     and   23,    available   online    at    https://www.scsp.ai/wp-
content/uploads/2023/10/economy.pdf; Brady Helwig, et al., National Action Plan for Advanced Compute and
Microelectronics, Special Competitive Studies Project (Nov. 2023), at 8-9, 13, 32, and 39, available online at
https://www.scsp.ai/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/National-Action-Plan-for-U.S.-Advantage-in-Advanced-Compute-
and-Microelectronics.pdf; see also, e.g., John Miller and Sacha Wunsch-Vincent, High-Tech Trade Rebounded
Strongly in the Second Half of 2020, with New Asian Exporters Benefiting (Mar. 15, 2021), available online at
https://www.wipo.int/pressroom/en/news/2021/news_0001.html.

n9 Id.

n10 See Karen M. Sutter, "Made in China 2025" Industrial Policies: Issues for Congress, Congressional Research
Service (Mar. 10, 2023), at 1, available online at https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF10964.

n11 Id.

n12 See SCSP, Generative AI, supra at n. 8, at 3 and n. 6.

n13 Id.

n14 See, e.g., Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, 2023 Special 301 Report, Executive Office of the President,
The White House (Apr. 2023), at 9, 22-23, 45-47, available online at https://ustr.gov/sites/default/files/2023-
04/2023Special301Report.pdf; see also Keith B. Alexander and Jamil N. Jaffer, China Is Waging Economic War on
America. The Pandemic Is an Opportunity to Turn the Fight Around, Barron's (August 4, 2020), available online at
https://www.barrons.com/         articles/china-is-waging-cyber-enabled-economic-war-on-the-u-s-how-to-fight-back-
51596587400.

n15 Id.

n16 See, e.g., Sean O'Connor, How Chinese Companies Facilitate Technology Transfer from the United States,
U.S.-China Economic Security Review Commission, at 7 (May 6, 2019), available online at
https://www.uscc.gov/sites/default/files/Research/HowChineseCompaniesFacilitateTechTransferfromtheUS.pdf

n17 Id. at 8.

n18 See, e.g., Erica York, et al., Comparing the Corporate Tax System in the U.S. and China, Tax Foundation, at 4
(May 2022), available online at https://files.taxfoundation.org/20220502152914/Comparing-the-Corporate-Tax-
Systems-in-the-United-States-and-China.pdf.

                                                                                              Page 10 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

n19 See, e.g., Cory Bennet and Bryan Bender, How China Acquires 'The Crown Jewels' of U.S. Technology,
Politico (May 22, 2018), available online at https://www. politico.com/story/2018/05/22/china-us-tech-companies-
cfius-572413; Camille A. Stewart, Full Court Press: Preventing Foreign Adversaries from Exfiltrating National
Security Technologies Through Bankruptcy Proceedings, 10 J. Nat'l Security L. and Pol'y 277, 279-82 (2019).

n20 See, e.g., Alison Snyder, China Talent Program Increased Young Scientists' Productivity, Study Says, Axios
(Jan. 10, 2023), available online at https://www. axios.com/2023/01/10/china-funding-young-scientists-productivity;
see also Emily S. Weinstein, Chinese Talent Program Tracker, Center for Security and Emerging Technology,
Georgetown University (Nov. 2020), available online at https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/chinese-talent-
program- tracker/; Federal Bureau of Investigation, The China Threat - Chinese Talent Plans Encourage Trade
Secret    Theft,    Economic      Espionage,     Federal    Bureau      of  Investigation,  available online     at
https://www.fbi.gov/investigate/counterintelligence/the-china-threat/chinese- talent-plans.

n21 See, e.g., Arjun Gargeyas, China's '2035 Standards' Quest to Dominate Global Standard-Setting, Hinrich
Foundation (Feb. 21, 2023), available online at https:// www.hinrichfoundation.com/research/article/trade-and-
geopolitics/china-2035-standards-project-restructure-global-economy/.

n22 See Sutter, Made in China 2025, supra n. 10 at 2 ("Similarly, the FYP calls for an expanded use of antitrust, IP,
and standards tools--in China and extraterritorially--to set market terms and promote the export of MIC2025 goods
and services now coming to market. The FYP also emphasizes the value of China's foreign research ties in
developing China's own competencies in a range of MIC2025 technology areas.").

n23 See id.

n24 See, e.g., Jill C. Gallagher, U.S. Restrictions on Huawei Technologies: National Security, Foreign Policy, and
Economic Interests, Congressional Research Service (Jan. 5, 2022), at 7-8, available online at
https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R47012/2 (describing how "[n]ational champions [in China], including
Huawei, received preferential policy treatment, access to low-cost financing, Randamp;D funding, and tax
benefits"); see also, e.g., Ann Harrison, et al., Can a Tiger Change Its Stripes? Reform of Chinese State-Owned
Enterprises in the Penumbra of the State, NBER Working Paper No. 25475 (Jan. 2019), at 24, available online at
https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w25475/w25475.pdf (noting that former Chinese state-owned
enterprises, like SOEs themselves, generally "retain ready access to large loans, concessionary interest rates, and
outright subsidies").

n25 See, e.g., Scott Livingston, The New Challenge of Communist Corporate Governance, Center for Strategic and
International Studies (Jan. 2021), at 2-4, available online at https://csis-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-
public/publication/210114_Livingston_New_Challenge.pdf.

n26 See Joshua Kurlantzick, Assessing China's Digital Silk Road Initiative, Council on Foreign Relations (Dec. 18,
2020), available online at https://www.cfr.org/ china-digital-silk-road/; Chang Che and John Liu, 'De-Americanize':
How China Is Remaking Its Chip Business, New York Times (May 11, 2023), available online at https://www.
nytimes.com/2023/05/11/technology/china-us-chip-controls.html.

n27 See, e.g., Eric Schmidt, To Compete With China on Tech, America Needs to Fix Its Immigration System,
Foreign Affairs (May 16, 2023), available online at https://www.foreignaffairs.com/united-states/eric-schmidt-
compete-china-tech-america-needs-fix-its-immigration-system ("While the United States' dysfunctional system
increasingly deters the world's top scientists, researchers, and entrepreneurs, other countries are proactively
recruiting them. China is particularly active in doing so, with direction coming from the very top.").

n28 See, e.g., Karin Fischer, China Outpaces U.S. in STEM, Georgetown Center for Security and Emerging
Technology, Latitudes (Aug. 9, 2021), available online at https://cset.georgetown.edu/article/china-outpaces-u-s-in-
stem/. ("China could graduate nearly twice as many STEM PhDs as the United States by 2025...China overtook the
U.S. in PhD production in 2007 and has steadily increased its lead ever since.").

                                                                                              Page 11 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

n29 See Jane Nakano, The Geopolitics of Critical Minerals Supply Chains, Center for Strategic and International
Studies, at 5 (March 2021), available online at https://csis-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-
public/publication/210311_Nakano_Critical_Minerals.pdf.

n30 See, e.g., Arjun Kharpal, What are Gallium and Germanium? China Curbs Exports of Metals Critical to Chips
and Other Tech, CNBC (July 4, 2023), available online at https://www.cnbc.com/2023/07/04/what-are-gallium-and-
germanium-china-curbs-exports-of-metals-for-tech.html),              available            online              at
https://www.reuters.com/markets/commodities/      chinas-rare-earths-dominance-focus-after-mineral-export-curbs-
2023-07-05/.

n31 See, e.g., Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, Section 301 Investigation Fact Sheet, Executive Office of
the President, The White House (June 2018), available online at https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-
office/fact-sheets/2018/june/section-301-investigation-fact-sheet (noting that the Trump Administration invoked
Section 301 authorities and imposed tariffs on most imports from China in response to findings that China's IP
policies harmed U.S. stakeholders); see also Sutter, Made in China 2025, supra n. 10 at 2 (noting that a January
2020 bilateral economic and trade agreement resulted in some IP and technology transfer commitments by China
but left most U.S. concerns unresolved).

n32 Sutter, Made in China 2025, supra n. 10 at 2; see also, e.g., Ana Swanson, Trump's Trade War With China is
Officially   Underway,      New      York      Times       (July     5,   2018),     available   online     at
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/business/china-us-trade-war-trump-tariffs.html.

n33 See, e.g., Snyder, China Talent Program, supra n. 20.

n34 See Sutter, Made in China 2025, supra n. 10 at 2.

n35 See, e.g., Tim Kelly, et al., Japan, Netherlands to Join U.S. in Restricting Chip Equipment Exports to China,
Bloomberg Reports, Reuters (Jan. 27, 2023), available online at https://www.reuters.com/technology/japan-
netherlands-join-us-china-chip-controls-bloomberg-2023-01-27/.

n36 See The White House, Executive Order on Addressing United States Investments in Certain National Security
Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern (Aug. 9, 2023), available online at
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/09/executive-order-on-addressing-united-
states-investments-in-certain-national-security-technologies-and-products-in-countries-of-concern/.

n37 See John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, Pub. L. No. 115-232, [Subsec.]
1701-28 (2018) (Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018).

n38 See, e.g., Michael Geffroy and Andy Keiser, NSI Policy Brief: Restricting U.S. Outbound Investment to
Targeted Chinese Sectors, National Security Institute, George Mason University Scalia Law School (May 2023),
available online at https://nationalsecurity.gmu.edu/restricting-u-s-outbound-investment-to-targeted- chinese-
sectors/ (discussing export control authorities and the importance of stepping cautiously).

n39 See CHIPS Act of 2022, Pub. L. No. 117-167, [Sec.] 103 (2022).

n40 See, e.g., Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Pub. L. No. 117-58, [Subsec.] 40206, 40210 (2021).

n41 See, e.g., Pub. L. No. 117-167, [Subsec.] 10102-103, 10105-113, 10348-362 (2022).

n42 See CHIPS Act, supra n. 39, [Sec.] 106; see also National Telecommunications and Information Administration,
Wireless Innovation Fund Notice of Funding Opportunity, U.S. Dept. of Commerce (Apr. 12, 2023), available online
at https://www.ntia.gov/issues/innovation-fund/notice-of-funding-opportunity.

n43 See, e.g., Pub. L. No. 117-167, [Subsec.] 10104, 10230, 10374 (2022)

                                                                                              Page 12 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

n44 See, e.g., Pub. L. No. 117-167, [Subsec.] 10101-114 (basic science); [Subsec.] 10221-235 (basic science);
[Subsec.] 10311-321 (STEM education and workforce) and [Subsec.] 10501-526 (STEM education and workforce).

n45 See James Manyika et al., Innovation and National Security - Keeping Our Edge, Council on Foreign Relations
(Sep.      2019),     at     2,     19,   available     online    at     https://   www.cfr.org/report/keeping-our-
edge/pdf/TFR_Innovation_Strategy.pdf ("Federally supported RandD had a dramatic impact on U.S.
competitiveness and national security. According to a 2019 study, starting in the 2010s nearly one-third of patented
U.S. inventions relied on federally funded science []. Touch screens, the Global Positioning System (GPS), and
internet technologies central to the smartphone are all products of Defense Department research...Between 1988
and 2010, $3.8 billion of federal investment in genomic research generated an economic impact of $796 billion and
created 310,000 jobs. A new wave of support for basic research could have similar economic and military
benefits."); see also Jamie Gaida et al., ASPI's Critical Technology Tracker: The Global Race for Future Power,
Australian Strategic Policy Institute (Feb. 2023), at 1, available online at https://ad-aspi.s3.ap-southeast-
2.amazonaws.com/2023-03/ASPIs%20Critical%20 Technology%20Tracker_0.pdf (noting that "China's global lead
extends to 37 out of 44 technologies that ASPI is now tracking, covering a range of crucial technology fields
spanning defense, space, robotics, energy, the environment, biotechnology, artificial intelligence (AI), advanced
materials and key quantum technology areas").

n46 See id. at 21 ("Public spending on basic science drives discoveries that would have been too big and risky for a
private company to undertake. In effect, federal investment funds RandD with national economic, strategic, and
social returns, while private sector RandD is motivated by commercial returns. Moreover, public RandD creates
spillovers that benefit the entire economy and incentivize greater RandD funding in the private sector.")

n47 See, e.g., American Innovation and Choice Online Act, S.2992, 117th Cong. (2021); Open App Markets Act,
S.2710, 117th Cong. (2021); Bill Evanina and Jamil N. Jaffer, Kneecapping U.S. Tech Companies Is a Recipe for
Economic Disaster, Barron's (June 17, 2022), available online at https://www.barrons.com/articles/kneecapping-u-
s-tech-firms-is-a-recipe-for-economic-disaster-51655480902 ("Conservatives are often worried--sometimes for
good reason--that certain social or mainstream media companies might actively seek to suppress or quiet
conservative voices. On the liberal side, there are a range of legitimate concerns with technology companies,
including the displacement of traditional labor in the new gig economy... Yet rather than tackling these concerns
directly by going after the specific behaviors or actions that trouble ordinary Americans, politicians in Washington
have chosen instead to vilify some of our most successful companies and to go after them economically."); see also
David R. Henderson, A Populist Attack On Big Tech, The Hoover Institution (Mar. 3, 2022), available online at
https://www. hoover.org/research/populist-attack-big-tech-0; Klon Kitchen and Jamil Jaffer, The American
Innovation and Choice Online Act Is A Mistake, The Kitchen Sync (Jan. 19, 2022), available online at https://www.
thekitchensync.tech/p/the-american-innovation-and-choice.

n48 See Henderson, A Populist Attack on Big Tech, supra n. 47; Evanina and Jaffer, Kneecapping U.S. Tech
Companies, supra n. 47.

n49 See Kitchen and Jaffer, The American Innovation and Choice Online Act, supra n. 47; Evanina and Jaffer,
Kneecapping U.S. Tech Companies, supra n. 47.

n50 See, e.g., Phillip Singerman and Alexander Kersten, Implementing CHIPS: The NEPA Permitting Challenge,
Center      for     Strategic   and    International       Studies   (May     1,     2023),    available   online     at
https://www.csis.org/analysis/implementing-chips-nepa-permitting-challenge ("[F]ederal funding under the CHIPS
Act triggers the federal NEPA review process...This has raised fears that complying with the NEPA review could
stall projects for over two years and cost the firms billions, undermining the policy imperatives of CHIPS....Currently,
there is uncertainty about how these rules will apply to the construction of semiconductor fabs stimulated by the
CHIPS Act....Further, the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) claims that between 2013 and 2018
Environmental Impact Statements took an average of 4.5 years to complete. This implies that any fab that is obliged
to generate an Environmental Impact Statement would likely face significant delays. Some estimates put delay

                                                                                              Page 13 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

costs for large infrastructure projects as high as 5 percent a year, meaning, for example, that Intel's planned $20
billion investment in Ohio could encounter about $1 billion in extra expenses for every year delayed.").

n51 See McKinsey and Co., The CHIPS and Science Act: Here's What's in It (Oct. 4, 2022), available online at
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/public-sector/ our-insights/the-chips-and-science-act-heres-whats-in-it (noting
that the CHIPS and Science Act "authorizes (but does not yet appropriate) $174 billion over the next five years to
various federal science agencies to invest in STEM, workforce development, and RandD, with some $80 billion
earmarked for the National Science Foundation").

n52 Cf. National Science Teachers Association, FACT SHEET: Title IV, Part A of ESSA: Student Support and
Academic         Enrichment      Grants      and   Science/STEM      Education,      available      online    at
https://static.nsta.org/pdfs/ESSATitleIV-ScienceSTEMFactSheet.pdf (describing the $1.65 billion Student Support
and Academic Enrichment block grant program under The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) enacted in 2014,
which consolidated the Math and Science Partnership Grants, which is described as "the largest single program at
the Department of Education devoted exclusively to science/STEM-related classroom purposes," having "received
$152.7M in FY2016 before it was eliminated").

n53     See,     e.g.,  Digital  Pioneers    Academy,     Our    Academic     Model,     available     online    at
https://www.digitalpioneersacademy.org/enroll/academic-model (describing the D.C. charter school's unique model
of two teachers per classroom and requiring one hour of computer science per day for students at all grade levels);
Digital      Pioneers      Academy,       Computer        Science      Model,       available       online       at
https://www.digitalpioneersacademy.org/enroll/csmodel (describing the Digital Pioneer's curriculum as requiring
students to "[t]ake and pass the Computer Science Advanced Placement exam in 10th grade [and] [m]aster two
programming languages by 12th grade.").

n54 See Schmidt, To Compete with China on Tech, supra n. 27 ("According to current projections, U.S.
semiconductor companies will have 300,000 unfilled vacancies for skilled engineers by 2030. Targeting, training,
and recruiting hundreds of thousands of U.S. citizens will be impossible in such a compressed time frame. The only
way to meet this demand is to recruit many more skilled workers from abroad.").

n55 Id. ("[T]he United States has long relied on its companies and universities to attract the world's best and
brightest. Brilliant engineers from all around the world helped me turn Google into a world-leading technology
company. But this did not happen because of the U.S. immigration system. It happened in spite of it.").

n56 See Paayal Zaveri, America's Immigration System is a Nightmare and it's Forcing Tech Companies to Move
Jobs     Outside      of    the    Country,   Business    Insider  (Mar.   14,    2023),   available   online   at
https://www.businessinsider.com/us-tech-firms-offshoring-immigration-labor-shortage-issues-remote-work-2023-3
("[T]he difficulties in bringing immigrants into the US is pushing companies to instead hire them to work in other
countries. That, in turn, is encouraging those same companies to open branch offices in other countries and recruit
there, staffing them with people who might otherwise have come to the US to work[.]").

n57 See William Alan Reinsch and Thibault Denamiel, Immigration Policy's Role in Bolstering the U.S. Technology
Edge, Center for Strategic and International Studs. (Feb. 6, 2023), available online at
https://www.csis.org/analysis/immigration-policys-role-bolstering-us-technology-edge; see also William R. Kerr and
Sari Pekkala Kerr, Immigration Policy Levers for U.S. Innovation and Startups, Harvard Business School, Working
Paper 20-105 (Apr. 2020), available online at https://www.hbs.edu/ris/Publication Files/20-105_aac0d5ae-e6e3-
4570- 8225-31bcc127f693.pdf.

n58 See H. Comm. On Rules, H.R. 7900, Amend. 117-54 (July 12, 2022), https://amendments-
rules.house.gov/amendments/LOFGRE_036_xml220705125918927. pdf (showing an unenacted amendment by
Congresswoman Lofgren (CA-18)); see also Reinsch and Denamiel, Immigration Policy's Role, supra n. 57 ("Last
year, there was bipartisan support for making available additional green cards with shorter wait times for STEM
Ph.D.'s. Yet ultimately this initiative was stripped from the final National Defense Authorization Act.").

                                                                                              Page 14 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

n59 See, e.g., Select Committee on the Strategic Competition with the Chinese Communist Party, Reset, Prevent,
Build: A Strategy to Win America's Economic Competition with the Chinese Communist Party (Dec. 12, 2023), at
31-32,          available        online          at         https://selectcommitteeontheccp.house.gov/sites/evo-
subsites/selectcommitteeontheccp.house.gov/files/evo-media-document/reset-prevent-build-scc-report.pdf.

n60 Id.

n61 See Jamil N. Jaffer, NSI Backgrounder: The Role of American Technology Sector in Safeguarding U.S.
Economic and National Security, National Security Institute, GMU Scalia Law School (Dec. 2022), at 1 and n. 6,
available online at https://nationalsecurity.gmu.edu/the-role-of-american-technology-sector-in- safeguarding-u-s-
economic-and-national-security/ (citing John F. Sargent, U.S. Research and Development Funding and
Performance: Fact Sheet, Congressional Research Service (Sept. 13, 2022), available online at
https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R44307/18).

n62 See id. at 1 and n. 5 (citing Prableen Bajpai, Which Companies Spend the Most in Research and Development
(RandD)?, Nasdaq (June 21, 2021), available online at https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/which-compa- nies-spend-
the-most-in-research-and-development-rd-2021-06-21).

n63 See Emily S. Weinstein and Ngor Luong, U.S. Outbound Investment into Chinese AI Companies, Georgetown
University Center for Security and Emerging Technology (Feb. 2023), at 11-13, available online at
https://cset.georgetown.edu/wp-content/uploads/CSET-U.S.-Outbound-Investment-into-Chinese-AI-Companies.pdf;
see also Alexandra Alper, U.S. Investors Have Plowed Billions into China's AI sector, Report Shows, Reuters (Feb.
1, 2023), available online at https://www.reuters.com/ technology/us-investors-have-plowed-billions-into-chinas-ai-
sector-report-shows-2023-02-01/; Select Committee on Strategic Competition with the Chinese Communist Party,
Letter to Sequoia Capital on its PRC High-Tech Investments, Examine Implications of Announced Split (Oct. 18,
2023), available online at https://selectcommitteeontheccp.house.gov/media/letters/letter-sequoia-capital-its-prc-
high-tech-investments-examine-implications-announced.

n64 See Alper, U.S. Investors, supra n. 61; see Weinstein and Luong, U.S. Outbound Investment, supra n. 61, at
11-12 (showing that 167 U.S. investors took part in 401 transactions, or roughly 17% of the investments into
Chinese AI companies in the period; those transactions, in total, represented a total $40.2 billion in investment, or
37% of the total raised by Chinese AI companies in the 6-year period; it is unclear how much of that amount is
attributable to U.S. investors).

n65 See, e.g., China Select Committee, Reset, Prevent, Build, supra n. 59 at 28-31.

n66 See 15 U.S.C. [Sec.] 4652(a)(5)-(6); see also National Inst. for Standards and Technology, Proposed Rule:
Preventing the Improper Use of CHIPS Act Funding, 88 FR 17439 (Mar. 23, 2023), available online at
https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2023-05869; Various Authors, Comments on Proposed Rule: Preventing the
Improper Use of CHIPS Act Funding, available online at https://www.regulations.gov/docket/NIST-2023-
0001/comments.

n67 See Alexander and Jaffer, China Is Waging Economic War on America, supra n. 14.

n68 Eric Cheung, Honduras Establishes Diplomatic Ties with China, Severs Them With Taiwan, CNN (Mar. 26,
2023), available online at https://edition.cnn. com/2023/03/25/asia/honduras-cuts-diplomatic-ties-with-taiwan-intl-
hnk/index.html), available online at https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/surprise-guatemalan-presidential-
contender-pitches-closer-china- ties-2023-06-27/.

n69 See, e.g., General Data Protection Regulation, Council Regulation 2016/679, 2016 O.J. (L 119) 1 (EU); Single
Market For Digital Services (Digital Services Act), Council Regulation 2022/2065, 2022 O.J. (L 277) 1 (EU);
Contestable and Fair Markets in the Digital Sector (Digital Markets Act), Council Regulation 2022/1925, 2022 O.J.
(L 265) 1 (EU).

                                                                                              Page 15 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

n70 See, e.g., The Digital Personal Data Protection Bill, 2022, [Subsec.] 1-30, available online at
https://www.meity.gov.in/writereaddata/files/The%20Digital%20Personal%20Data%20Potection%20Bill%2C%2020
22_0.pdf; Proposed Digital India Act, 2023, available online at https://www.meity.gov.in/writereaddata/files/
DIA_Presentation 09.03.2023 Final.pdf; Shivani Bazaz, Explained: India's Upcoming Digital Competition Act and
What is the Debate Around it All About, CNBC (Jul. 14, 2023), available online at
https://www.cnbctv18.com/technology/explained--indias-upcoming-digital-competition-act-and-what-is-the-debate-
around-it-all- about-17222501.htm.

n71 See, e.g., Javier Espinoza, EU Should Focus on Top 5 Tech Companies, Says Leading MEP, Financial Times
(May 31, 2021), available online at https://www. ft.com/content/49f3d7f2-30d5-4336-87ad-eea0ee0ecc7b ("The EU
lawmaker who will steer the EU's flagship tech regulation through the European parliament has said it should focus
on the largest five US tech companies. Andreas Schwab, a German MEP and longtime critic of Google, spoke after
France and Germany both called for the EU to be tougher on Big Tech. He said Google, Apple, Amazon, Facebook
and Microsoft, were the 'biggest problems' for EU competition policy."); Adam Satariano, Meta Fined $1.3 Billion for
Violating E.U. Data Privacy Rules, New York Times (May 22, 2022), available online at https://www.nytimes.
com/2023/05/22/business/meta-facebook-eu-privacy-fine.html),         available      online    at      https://lahood.
house.gov/_cache/files/6/8/681fc5f3-dacf-458e-9096-
0943b2bb2d1f/685FC0EBDAF0D803ED514345D8FEF91A.final-letter-to-president-biden-on-eu-digital-                    trade-
concerns---june-2023.pdf (describing efforts by the EU "to regulate the digital economy in ways that harm American
companies and workers" and arguing that "the discriminatory elements of these policies will weaken American
competitiveness by unfairly advantaging domestic European firms and inadvertently benefitting Chinese, Russian,
and other foreign-owned competitors").

n72 See Cecilia Kang, As Europe Approves New Tech Laws, the U.S. Falls Further Behind, New York Times (April
22, 2022), available online at https://www. nytimes.com/2022/04/22/technology/tech-regulation-europe-us.html.

n73 See Jan Rybnicek, Innovation in the United States and Europe, in Report on the Digital Economy, Global
Antitrust Institute (2020), available online at https://gaidigitalreport.com/2020/08/25/innovation-in-the-united-states-
and-europe/ ("The United States also has greater and faster GDP growth than Europe. Although not a perfect
metric, it gives some sense of the contributions that innovative firms have brought to the U.S. economy over time.");
International Monetary Fund, GDP Per Capita, Current Prices: U.S. Dollars Per Capita (2023), available online at
https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/NGDPDPC@WEO/EU/USA .

n74 See id. ("The United States is home to the most innovative companies that span numerous industries. This
includes the most successful global tech firms at the forefront of technological change. These companies
consistently outspend their European counterparts on research and development, a key indicator of product
improvement and development."); Michael Ringel et al., The Most Innovative Companies 2020, The Serial
Innovation Imperative, Boston Consulting Group, at 16 (June 2020), available online at https://web-
assets.bcg.com/img-src/BCG-Most-Innovative-Companies-2020-Jun-2020-R-4_tcm9-251007.pdf.

n75 See, e.g., Loren Thompson, Why Reining In Big Tech Could Be Bad News For U.S. National Security, Forbes
(July 7, 2022), available online at https://www. forbes.com/sites/lorenthompson/2022/07/07/why-breaking-up-big-
tech-could-be-bad-news-for-us-national-security/?sh=1e40190d32bd ; Jaffer, The Role of American Technology
Sector, supra n. 59.

n76 See American Edge Project, U.S. and European Views of the Tech Industry (Sept. 2022), available online at
https://americanedgeproject.org/wp-content/ uploads/2022/09/AEP-US-EU-Survey-Insights-F9.12.22.pdf.

n77 See, e.g., Chris Inglis, et al., As the U.S. Sprints Ahead on AI, Values Can't Be Left Behind, Barron's (Oct 26,
2023), available online at https://www.barrons.com/articles/ai-regulation-nationalization-innovation-security-
6d60ba33 (""); see also Michael Chui, et al., Generative AI is Here: How Tools Like ChatGPT Could Change Your
Business,       McKinsey          and        Co.       (Dec.     20,      2022),       available     online       at
https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/quantumblack/our-insights/generative-ai-is-here-how-tools-like-chatgpt-

                                                                                              Page 16 of 16
    Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee Hearing; "National Security Challenges: Outpacing
                        China in Emerging Technology."; Testimony by Jamil Jaffer,....

could-change-your-business; Danny Hajek, et al., What Is AI and How Will It Change Our Lives? NPR Explains.
(May 25, 2023), available online at https://www.npr.org/2023/05/25/1177700852/ai- future-dangers-benefits.

n78 See, e.g., Geoffrey Hinton, et al., Statement on AI Risk: AI Experts and Public Figures Express their Concern
About AI Risk, Center for AI Risk (May 30, 2023), available online at https://www.safe.ai/statement-on-ai-risk#open-
letter ("Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such
as pandemics and nuclear war."); Max Zahn, AI Leaders Warn the Technology Poses 'Risk of Extinction' Like
Pandemics         and     Nuclear      War,     ABC     News      (May       30,    2023),    available     online    at
https://abcnews.go.com/Technology/ai-leaders-warn-technology-poses-risk-extinction-pandemics/
story?id=99690874.

n79 See Will Knight, Why the Story of an AI Drone Trying to Kill Its Operator Seems So True, Wired (June 8, 2023),
available online at https://www.wired.com/story/ business-fast-forward/.

n80 Ryan Browne, Europe Takes Aim at ChatGPT With What Might Soon be the West's First A.I. Law. Here's What
It Means, CNBC (May 15, 2023), available online at https://www.cnbc.com/2023/05/15/eu-ai-act-europe-takes-aim-
at-chatgpt-with-landmark-regulation.html).

n81 See The White House, Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of
Artificial Intelligence

n82 See Europe Takes Aim, supra n. 77 ("The AI Act categorizes applications of AI into four levels of risk:
unacceptable risk, high risk, limited risk and minimal or no risk. Unacceptable risk applications are banned by
default and cannot be deployed in the bloc.")

n83 Cf. Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, National Institute of Standards and
Technology (Apr. 16, 2018), available online at https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf.

Read this original document at: https://www.banking.senate.gov/download/jaffer-testimonyanddownload=1


Load-Date: January 21, 2024


  
