

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 8
                                   Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024




                    Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          January 13, 2024 Saturday 8:20 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3439 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(TNSres) -- The U.S. Census Bureau issued the following tip sheet (No. 1) on Jan. 12, 2024:

***

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

Census Open Innovation Summit 2024 January 17-19

Summit 2024 will bring together trailblazers in the government innovation space for important discussions about
technology, business investment and entrepreneurship, local government innovation, human-centered data and
more. Each session will include leading data experts and community leaders, showcasing cross-sector
collaboration and federal-community partnership.

Census Scientific Advisory Committee: Call for Nominations

The U.S. Census Bureau is requesting nominations to the Census Scientific Advisory Committee (CSAC) through
the Federal Register Notice (FRN). CSAC provides recommendations on the design, operation and implementation
of Census Bureau programs. New members will serve a 3-year term. Nominations must be submitted through the
FRN by February 2, 2024.

2030 Preparation

Initial Strategies for 2030 Census Preparations

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 8
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024

The Census Bureau plans to release five strategy documents outlining how it plans to carry out the next decennial
census. The strategies cover the Census Bureau's approach for conducting a complete count, designing
operations, developing the IT solution, sourcing contracts and engaging with stakeholders for the 2030 Census.
(Tentatively scheduled for release January 31.)

American Community Survey

2018-2022 American Community Survey 5-year Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) and Variance Replicate
Estimates

The 2018-2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-year Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) files and
Variance Replicate Estimate tables are scheduled to be released January 25. The ACS PUMS files enable data
users to create custom estimates and tables that are not available through pre-tabulated ACS data products. These
statistics are available for the nation, regions, divisions, states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Public Use
Microdata Areas (PUMAs). The Variance Replicate Estimate tables allow advanced data users to calculate margins
of error when collapsing data within a table or across geographies. (Scheduled for release January 25.)

Release of Additional American Community Survey Selected Population Tables and American Indian and Alaska
Native Tables

Additional 2017-2021 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-Year Selected Population Tables (SPT) and American
Indian and Alaska Native Tables (AIANT) are scheduled to be released Thursday, January 25 to address over-
suppression for some groups and geographies within the original June 2023 release. Visit the Race, Ethnicity,
Ancestry and American Indian & Alaska Native Tables page for more information about geographic area/group
combinations that will be receiving additional tabulations. The SPT and AIANT data products contain the greatest
level of statistical detail for detailed race, Hispanic origin, tribal and ancestry group populations. (Scheduled for
release January 25.)

2022 Community Resilience Estimates, New Winter Weather and Flooding Ranking Tables

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2022 Community Resilience Estimates (CRE), and new ranking tables of
U.S. areas most socially vulnerable to winter weather and flooding.

The CRE interactive tool and datasets pages will also be updated with the new 2022 CRE data. Community
resilience is the capacity of individuals and households within a community to absorb the external stresses of a
disaster. The CRE measures the social vulnerability of a community that inhibits community resilience based on 10
topics from the American Community Survey. Topics include poverty status, disability status, age, broadband
internet access, health insurance coverage and more. (Scheduled for release January 30.)

Proposed 2025 American Community Survey and Puerto Rico Community Survey Content Changes

The public comment period through a Federal Register Notice (FRN) on proposed changes to the 2025 American
Community Survey (ACS) and Puerto Rico Community Survey (PRCS) is now closed. The proposed content for the
2025 ACS and PRCS reflects changes to content and instructions that were recommended as a result of the 2022
Content Test. The Census Bureau periodically conducts tests of new and revised survey content to ensure the ACS
and the PRCS meet the data needs of stakeholders. The changes proposed for 2025 cover several topics:
household roster, educational attainment, health insurance coverage, disability, and labor force questions.
Additionally, three new questions are proposed to be added to the ACS and the PRCS on solar panels, electric
vehicles, and sewage disposal. For more information, visit the Content Changes webpage
(http://author.cms.asd.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/methodology/content-test.html).

Demographic

Household Pulse Survey

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 8
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024

The experimental Household Pulse Survey (HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4 topics include employment status, spending, food security, housing, health, mental health, natural
disasters, inflation and spending, vaccine receipt, COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, shortage of critical products,
disability, income, social connection and child care arrangements. Data collection for phase 4.0 began January 9,
with data dissemination, including detailed data tables and public- use files on a monthly basis. (Scheduled for
release February 22, March 21 and April 18.)

Economic

Transitioning multiple annual economic surveys to the new Annual Integrated Economic Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will announce the launch of the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) beginning in
March. This new program replaces seven annual economic surveys, streamlining reporting by consolidating all
necessary questions into one convenient survey. The AIES will replace the Annual Capital Expenditures Survey
(ACES), Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS), Annual Survey of Manufactures (ASM), Annual Wholesale Trade
Survey (AWTS), Manufacturers' Unfilled Orders Survey (M3UFO), Report of Organization (COS), and the Service
Annual Survey (SAS). Companies selected to participate in the AIES will receive a survey invitation in March of
2024.

The statistics created from that data will provide key measures of economic activity, including the only
comprehensive national and subnational data on business revenues, expenses and assets on an annual basis. For
more information on the AIES, visit census.gov/aies.

2022 Economic Census First Look

The U.S. Census Bureau will release first look estimates from the 2022 Economic Census. The economic census is
the U.S. government's official five-year measure of businesses in the United States. It provides the most
comprehensive business and economic data available at the national, state and local levels - and serves as the
benchmark for current economic activity, such as the Gross Domestic Product and Producer Price Index.
(Scheduled for release January 25.)

First-Look 2023 Annual Business Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release an infographic and preliminary data from the Annual Business Surveys (ABS),
covering data year 2022. The infographic will show the profitability of employer businesses by race. The preliminary
data show the financing practices for employer firms by sex, ethnicity, race, minority and veteran status. Data in the
infographic and tables are shown for the percentage of employer businesses in 2022. The ABS is conducted jointly
by the U.S. Census Bureau and the National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics (NCSES) within the
National Science Foundation. (Tentatively scheduled for release January 25.)

2022 Annual Wholesale Trade Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release data tables from the 2022 Annual Wholesale Trade Survey (AWTS). This
survey produces national estimates of total annual sales, e-commerce sales, end-of-year inventories, purchases,
operating expenses, gross margins and commissions for wholesale businesses located in the United States. The
AWTS provides statistics for merchant wholesalers of durable and nondurable goods; manufacturers' sales
branches and offices; and wholesale electronic markets, agents and brokers. (Tentatively scheduled for release
January 29.)

2022 Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS)

The U.S. Census Bureau will release data tables from the 2022 Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS). This survey
produces national estimates of total annual sales, e-commerce sales, end-of-year inventories, purchases, total
operating expenses and gross margins for retail businesses located in the United States. The data are published on

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 8
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024

a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) basis and the estimates are used to benchmark the
monthly retail sales and inventories estimates each spring. (Tentatively scheduled for release on January 29.)

2022 Service Annual Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new data tables from the 2022 Service Annual Survey (SAS). The SAS
provides statistics on revenue, payroll, sources of revenue, expenses, exports, inventory, revenue from electronic
sources and other selected industry-specific data for service industries. The data are accompanied by supporting
materials, including a data visualization that provides revenue statistics for all sectors covered by the SAS.
(Scheduled for release January 30.)

New Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics Data

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2020 Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics (NES-D). Included within
this release are demographic data by urban and rural classification, receipt size of firm, and legal form of
organization plus characteristics of nonemployer business owners. The NES-D is an annual statistical series that
uses existing administrative records and census data to link demographic characteristics to the universe of
nonemployer businesses. (Scheduled for release February 8.)

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release data from the 2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES)
highlighting the industries with the largest total capital expenditures for structures and equipment for companies
with employees in 2022. Data are based on the 2022 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The
ACES provides the only comprehensive estimates of annual U.S. capital expenditures data covering all domestic
nonfarm businesses and detailing investments by type and industry. (Tentatively scheduled for release on February
28.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. Beginning in
September 2023, the BTOS made several changes regarding data collection and data products. BTOS
experimental data products are now representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding
farms. New questions were added to the BTOS questionnaire that address the following topics: artificial
intelligence, inventories, interest rates and severe weather events. Data are now available by additional
employment size classes: 1-4 employees, 5-9 employees, 10-19 employees, 20-49 employees, 50-99 employees,
100-249 employees and 250 or more employees. The data allow greater insight into the state of the economy by
providing continuous, timely information for key economic measures. Data are released biweekly and are available
by sector, state and the 25 most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Because of the change in sample
composition, BTOS data from before September 11, 2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional and national levels and by industry sector
at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released February 14 and include January 2024 data. Business
Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (census.gov).

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting U.S. Census Bureau statistics that relate to current
events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining
and producing content for their respective audiences.

* Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: January 15, 2024

                                                                                                    Page 5 of 8
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024

* National Popcorn Day: January 19, 2024

* National Spouses Day: January 26, 2024

* American Heart Month: February 2024

* Groundhog Day: February 2, 2024

* National Women Physician Day: February 3, 2024

* Grammy Awards: February 4, 2024

* Mail Carrier Day: February 4, 2024

* National Weatherperson's Day: February 5, 2024

* Lunar New Year: February 10, 2024

* Inventors' Day: February 11, 2024

* Super Bowl LVIII: February 11, 2024

* Mardi Gras: February 13, 2024

* Oregon 165th Anniversary of Statehood (1859): February 14, 2024

* Valentine's Day: February 14, 2024

* Singles Awareness Day: February 15, 2024

* Presidents' Day: February 19, 2024

________________________________________

Recently Released

(Released since December 28, 2023)

2020 Census

Census Bureau Releases Summary File Tables for 2020 Census Detailed DHC-A

January 10 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released a set of summary file tables in response to data users' requests for
another way to download data in bulk from the 2020 Census Detailed Demographic and Housing Characteristics
File A (Detailed DHC-A) that was released on September 21, 2023.

Economic

New Post-Secondary Employment Outcomes Data

January 11 -- The U.S. Census Bureau will release new state-level data on outcomes of graduates. Post-Secondary
Employment Outcomes (PSEO) tabulations show earnings and employment outcomes for graduates of U.S. post-
secondary institutions and are generated by linking graduate transcript records to Longitudinal Employer-Household
Dynamics wage data. This offers prospective students a comprehensive assessment tool to find out how much they
could potentially earn by degree and institution. The Census Bureau conducts the PSEO in cooperation with higher
education institutional systems to examine college degree attainment and graduate earnings.

New Economic & Social Science Research Published in the CES Working Paper Series

                                                                                                      Page 6 of 8
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024

January 2 -- Seventeen working papers were published by the Center for Economic Studies (CES) in the fourth
quarter of 2023. The CES Working Paper Series features research in economics and other social sciences, by U.S.
Census Bureau and FSRDC researchers, using restricted-use Census Bureau microdata. The complete CES
working paper series can be found at www.census.gov/library/working-papers/series/ces-wp.html.

American Community Survey

American Community Survey 5-year State-to-County Migration Flows

December 19 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released new 2017-2021 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-year
migration flows. Migration refers to the movement of people from one location to another. The state-to-county
migration flows highlight the number of people moving into specific counties from U.S. states and state equivalents,
U.S. Island Areas and foreign regions. Spanish

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

* Rising Cost of Child Care Services a Challenge for Working Parents (January 9)

* How Racially and Ethnically Diverse Is Your Neighborhood? (January 3)

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting the Census Bureau's newsworthy statistics that
relate to current events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media
in story mining and producing content for their respective audiences.

* National Pharmacist Day: January 12, 2024

* National Milk Day: January 11, 2024

* Alaska 65th Anniversary of Statehood (1959): January 3, 2024

* National Hot Tea Month: January 2024

* National Poverty in America Awareness Month: January 2024

* New Year's Day: January 1, 2024

Blogs

Census Bureau Economists to Present at AEA-ASSA Annual Meeting

Written by -- Center for Economic Studies, U.S. Census Bureau -- January 3 -- U.S. Census Bureau economists
and social scientists are set to present their research findings at the annual meeting of the American Economic
Association (AEA) and Allied Social Science Associations (ASSA) in San Antonio January 5-7. This conference
typically hosts more than 13,000 attendees from around the world and showcases the latest research in economics.

Recapping a Phenomenal 2023 at the U.S. Census Bureau

Written by -- Robert L. Santos, Director -- December 28 -- As my second year as director of the U.S. Census
Bureau draws to a close, I have been reflecting on all that we've accomplished in 2023 - and it's a lot. As a large
agency with employees and offices dispersed across our nation, sometimes it can be hard to see the big picture of
our achievements. So here are some of the highlights.

                                                                                                  Page 7 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources -- When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management
webpage (https://www.census.gov/topics/preparedness.html) for demographic and economic data on impacted
areas. Each disaster will include data from our key emergency management tools: OnTheMap for Emergency
Management, Community Resilience Estimates, Census Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition, and other
useful resources.

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community -- Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-
plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from
the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official information about America's people, businesses,
industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

* Atlanta

* Chicago

* Denver

* Los Angeles

* New York

* Philadelphia

* All Surveys

Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage
(https://www.census.gov/data/data-tools.html).

Census Geocoder -- Provides interactive & programmatic (REST) access to users interested in matching addresses
to geographic locations and entities containing those addresses.

EDA (Economic Development Administration)-Census Poverty Status Viewer -- This interactive tool measures high
poverty areas and persistent poverty counties using data from the American Community Survey, SAIPE, and
decennial census.

Migration Patterns: Young Adult Migration -- Use this resource to discover where people in your hometown moved
as young adults.

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities -- Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and
use Census Bureau statistics. These free sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate
Census Bureau databases and mapping tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national
level. Descriptions of upcoming sessions are available on our Census Academy webpage
(https://www.census.gov/data/academy/webinars/upcoming.html). Login details are provided at least one week
before a webinar.

* Best Practices When Using American Community Survey Data (Wednesday, January 17, 2-3 p.m. EST)

* data.census.gov News and Updates: January 2024 (Tuesday, January 23, 2-3 p.m. EST)

                                                                                                 Page 8 of 8
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 1 - Jan. 12, 2024

* The Exploration of Income, Poverty and Educational Census Data for Black and White Populations (Thursday,
January 25, 2-3 p.m. EST)

* 2024 Commercial Outlook for Business, Bank and International Trade (Tuesday, January 30, 3-4 p.m. EST)

* A Thematic Session on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Evidence from the Microdata (Wednesday, January 31,
2024, 1-2 p.m. EST)

Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library for previously recorded, free training available at your
convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded webinars, tutorials and other helpful materials.

***

Original text here: https://www.census.gov/newsroom/tip-sheets/2024/tp24-01.html

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8443653 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 13, 2024


  
