

                                                                                             Page 1 of 2
    Elevating MSP Excellence: Acronis MSP Academy Grows with 19 New Modules and a Video Library of 100+
                                             Strategic Insights




      Elevating MSP Excellence: Acronis MSP Academy Grows with 19 New
              Modules and a Video Library of 100+ Strategic Insights
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                            January 25, 2024 Thursday 5:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 755 words

Body


SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland, Jan. 25, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Acronis, a global leader in cyber
protection, is thrilled to announce the continued expansion of the Acronis MSP Academy, aimed at empowering
Managed Service Providers (MSPs) to thrive in the ever-evolving IT landscape. The latest offerings include the
introduction of 19 new modules and over 100 videos designed to provide industry-leading business and technical
training.

The newly released modules contain longer and more in-depth content that emphasizes technical aspects ideal for
onboarding new technicians. They cover a diverse range of topics crucial for MSPs, including Remote Desktop
Monitoring, Making Money with M365, Disaster Recovery, automation for MSPs, and How to Market Your MSP
Business.

The Acronis MSP Academy was launched in 2023 to support MSPs in growing their organizations through
specialized and MSP-specific training. With the addition of these new modules, MSPs now have the opportunity to
elevate their businesses by gaining advanced knowledge and skills.

Jon McCarrick, Director of Evangelism for Acronis, stated, “Through MSP Academy, we provide a tailored learning
experience, from diverse topic exploration to a structured learning path, guaranteeing continuous growth for MSP
owners and their technical teams.”

The modules cover various critical areas, including managed services, cybersecurity, and marketing. Completion of
these courses enables MSPs to enhance their cybersecurity expertise, deliver exceptional client services, and
achieve industry-recognized credentials.

                                                                                            Page 2 of 2
   Elevating MSP Excellence: Acronis MSP Academy Grows with 19 New Modules and a Video Library of 100+
                                            Strategic Insights

Training's impact on employee performance, retention, and overall company productivity has been highlighted by
Devlin Peck in a recent article. Companies with comprehensive training have 218% higher income per employee
and are 17% more productive. About 59% of employees believe training enhances their job performance, and 45%
are more likely to stay in their roles if they receive training. Moreover, more than 90% of employees indicate they
will not quit if offered development opportunities.

One key aspect of the expanded Acronis MSP Academy is the opportunity for MSPs to achieve Credly credentials,
highlighting their skills, knowledge, and expertise. Credly is a leading digital credentialing platform that enables
individuals and organizations to demonstrate their capabilities and commitment to delivering high-quality services.

In today's competitive IT landscape, Credly credentials can help MSPs stand out and attract new clients. By
displaying these credentials on their websites, social media profiles, and marketing materials, MSPs can build trust
with potential customers.

Enrolling in the new MSP Academy modules will unlock a wealth of benefits, including acquiring in-depth knowledge
and practical skills, standing out from the competition with Credly credentials, and staying up to date with the latest
industry trends.

Embark on a journey of continuous learning and professional development by enrolling in the Acronis MSP
Academy modules. For more information and to enroll, visit Acronis MSP Academy

About AcronisAcronis unifies data protection and cybersecurity to deliver integrated, automated cyber protection
that solves the safety, accessibility, privacy, authenticity, and security (SAPAS) challenges of the modern digital
world. With flexible deployment models that fit the demands of service providers and IT professionals, Acronis
provides superior cyber protection for data, applications, and systems with innovative next-generation antivirus,
backup, disaster recovery, and endpoint protection management solutions powered by AI. With advanced anti-
malware powered by cutting-edge machine intelligence and blockchain based data authentication technologies,
Acronis protects any environment - from cloud to hybrid to on premises - at a low and predictable cost.

Acronis is a Swiss company, founded in Singapore. Celebrating two decades of innovation, Acronis has 1,800+
employees in 45 locations. Acronis Cyber Protect solution is available in 26 languages in over 150 countries and is
used by 20,000+ service providers to protect over 750,000 businesses.

Media Contact:Karl BatesonKarl.Bateson@Acronis.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement        is         available                        at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/27b73be6-bbc8-4dac-9d6f-04f39f1fb583

Acronis renews their commitment to MSPs with 100's of training videos

Elevating MSP Excellence: Acronis MSP Academy Grows with 19 New Modules and a Video Library of 100+
Strategic Insights


Load-Date: January 25, 2024


  
