

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 13
                       COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024




    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024
                                               States News Service
                                               April 19, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 6854 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the office of House Majority Leader Steve Scalise:

Here's a recap of key moments from House Republican committees during the week:

Appropriations

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch held a budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025
Request for the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service, the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights, and the
Congressional Office for International Leadership." Various Legislative Branch agencies testified on their budget
requests for the upcoming fiscal year, noting ways to improve recruitment and retention and increase leadership
opportunities for congressional staffers.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a budget hearing
called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the U.S. Forest Service." The Chief of the U.S. Forest Service, Randy Moore,
was invited to discuss the agency's Budget Request and issues important to communities throughout the nation,
notably wildfire suppression and access to public lands.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held a budget
hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the Department of Justice." AG Merrick Garland was pressed on the
growing number of fentanyl overdoses in the United States and what the Administration is doing to combat the
issue. Increased illegal crossings at the southern border was also raised, along with heightening violent crime
throughout the United States - including in the District of Columbia.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Homeland Security held a budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025
Request for the Federal Emergency Management Agency." Appropriators focused questions on FEMA's disaster
response and how it is reaching rural communities. Members also voiced concern about the Agency's long
response times and diversion of disaster resources to address the southern border.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the Department of Veterans Affairs." The Secretary provided

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

an update on how the Department is increasing the quality of care available to veterans nationwide. Newly
appointed Chairman Cole joined the meeting, noting that veterans care would be a top priority in this year's bills.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch held a budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025
Request for the Library of Congress and the Architect of the Capitol." The LOC provided insights into how it intends
to increase the public knowledge of the library, including through new exhibitions and a youth center. On the other
hand, the AOC discussed efforts to collaborate with the United States Capitol Police and the Sergeant at Arms to
ensure Members, staff, and visitors remain safe and secure while on campus.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Homeland Security held a budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025
Request for the Transportation Security Administration." The Administrator met with Appropriators to discuss
various techniques used to ensure airline security and how their technologies could be used elsewhere (jails,
schools, etc.). Members voiced their concern about the diversion of Federal Air Marshals being diverted from
commercial flights to the southern border by Secretary Mayorkas.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch held a budget hearing called "Fiscal Year
2025 Request for the United States House of Representatives." Various Congressional offices within the House of
Representatives testified on their budget requests, outlining efforts to increase the House's efficiency and security.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a budget hearing
called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the Department of the Interior." The Secretary provided an overview of how
the Agency is using its resources to maintain federal land. Appropriators questioned the Agency's disposition
toward renewable energy over traditional energy sources.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education held a budget
hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the Department of Labor." Appropriators questioned the Agency's
regulatory agenda and how it has exacerbated unemployment and wage growth. Members also raised agriculture
workforce issues.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Defense held a budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request
for the Department of Defense." Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin was pressed on the Department's ability to
develop and acquire weapons, munitions, and other needs amid global conflict. Many Members noted the recent
aggressive actions of our adversaries, including Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the Army Corps of Engineers (Civil Works) and the Bureau of
Reclamation." These Agencies explained their Budget Requests and provided an update on various projects across
the country.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch held a hearing called "Member Day." To
ensure that Members have an opportunity to provide input into the annual appropriations process, the Committee
held a Member Day hearing.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held a budget
hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration." Appropriators
discussed the dynamic and emanant space race that the United States is in with China, and how NASA uses its
resources to combat the adversarial country. National security concerns in space exploration and how NASA is
ensuring U.S. strength dominated the conversation.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for Air Force and Space Force Military Construction and Family
Housing." The Subcommittee and senior members of our military discussed the current state of Air Force and
Space Force housing and how servicemember quality of life directly impacts our national security.

                                                                                                     Page 3 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Homeland Security held a budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025
Request for Immigration and Customs Enforcement." Members pressed the Agency on the crisis at the southern
border, focusing questions on detention capacity and urging expansion of the effective 287(g) program that utilizes
state and local law enforcement officers in detention efforts.

On Thursday, April 18, the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration held a
budget hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Budget Request for the Food and Drug Administration." During the
hearing, Members focused their questions on the Agency's efforts to increase food and drug safety and ways to
address ongoing drug shortages.

Armed Services

On Tuesday, April 16, the Armed Services Committee held a full committee hearing on the Department of the
Army's Fiscal Year 2025 budget request. In the hearing, members pressed Army officials on improving the quality of
life for servicemembers and their families. Members also expressed concern that President Biden's defense budget
fails to keep pace with inflation placing unnecessary risk on our Armed Forces.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Readiness held a hearing on the military construction program and
infrastructure, including barracks, housing, and range infrastructure. The hearing also covered environment and
energy programs, as well as facility sustainment, restoration and modernization accounts. In his opening statement,
Rep. Mike Waltz (R-FL) said, "I remain concerned about funding for facilities sustainment, restoration, and
modernization. Maintenance of existing facilities is chronically neglected to pay for other priorities. Disrepair of
military facilities has significant impacts on everything from quality-of-life for our servicemembers to sustainment
and innovation."

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces held a hearing on the Department of
Defense's Fiscal Year 2025 budget request for fixed-wing tactical and training aircraft programs. In his opening
statement, Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA) said, "As I review the plans again for each service like I did last year, two
common threads remain particularly concerning. First, our fighter force structure continues to decrease. And
second, we are not able to deliver replacement aircraft at affordable prices to achieve similar force structure
capacity going forward. And as I've said year over year, our adversaries continue to outpace us, building and
fielding their own lethal fighter capacity and capabilities."

On Wednesday, April 17, the Armed Services Committee held a full committee hearing on the Department of the Air
Force's Fiscal Year 2025 budget request. Members pressed Air Force and Space Force officials on the importance
of the modernization of our nuclear triad and concerns regarding China and Russia's buildup in space. Members
also relayed concerns regarding the risk that this defense budget forces the services to take when it comes to the
fielding of capabilities we will need to fight and win.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces held a hearing on the Fiscal Year
2025 budget request for seapower and projection forces. In his opening statement, Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS) said,
"Today, we face an increasingly assertive and powerful China. To maintain America's command of the world's
oceans, we must expand our Navy and its capabilities in order to deter and defeat the adversary."

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Military Personnel held a hearing on the health and welfare of the
force and the impact of current Department of Defense and service policies. In his opening statement, Rep. Jim
Banks (R-IN) said, "I am concerned that policies you must implement not only contradict the military culture
necessary to ensure an effective fighting force, but that the cultural upheaval this administration is pushing on DOD
and the military services may continue to lead to recruiting and retention problems."

Education and the Workforce

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions held a hearing called
"ERISA's 50th Anniversary: The Path to Higher Quality, Lower Cost Health Care." For the past 50 years, ERISA
has served as the legislative bedrock for employer-sponsored benefits. Through key provisions such as ERISA

                                                                                                       Page 4 of 13
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

preemption, the employer-sponsored benefits system continues to deliver health care value and outcomes for
millions of American workers. This hearing gave members an opportunity to examine ways to increase affordable
health care coverageincluding telehealthquality and access to care for employer-sponsored health insurance.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Committee on Education and the Workforce held a full committee hearing called
"Columbia in Crisis: Columbia University's Response to Antisemitism." Top members of Columbia leadership,
including President Shafik, answered for the disturbing wave of antisemitic harassment and discrimination engulfing
their university campus. Committee members, with laser-like sharpness on specific instances of antisemitism,
demanded accountability, and left President Shafik backpedaling while trying to defend her record. It is clear what
Shafik said and what's actually happening on campus are two very different things. Bottom line: The Committee is
standing strong with Jewish students against the antisemitic hate and discrimination endemic in postsecondary
education.

Energy and Commerce

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Health held a hearing called "Examining Health Sector Cybersecurity in
the Wake of the Change Healthcare Attack." Members spoke with industry experts from across the health care
system on what more needs to be done to secure patients' sensitive health information and protect our health care
sector from disruption.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing called "Examining How
Improper Payments Cost Taxpayers Billions and Weaken Medicare and Medicaid." Members used the hearing to
strengthen the oversight of Medicare and Medicaid programs by curtailing improper payments and ensuring the
most efficient use of limited resources to benefit those the programs exist to serve.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Innovation, Data, and Commerce held a hearing called "Legislative
Solutions to Protect Kids Online and Ensure Americans' Data Privacy Rights." Members discussed legislative
solutions to protect people online and establish strong comprehensive data privacy protections for people of every
age in every state. The witnesses all agreed that the American Privacy Rights Act is Congress's best chance to
pass comprehensive data privacy legislation.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Health held a hearing called "Fiscal Year 2025 Department of
Health and Human Services Budget." Members held HHS Secretary Becerra accountable for how, under his
leadership, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has failed to achieve its core mission of
enhancing the health of Americans.

Financial Services

On Monday, April 15, Representative Young Kim (CA-40) appeared before the House Committee on Rules to speak
in support of her bill, H.R. 6323, the Iran Counterterrorism Act of 2023. H.R. 6323 requires Iran to cease support for
acts of international terrorism as a condition for the President to waive secondary sanctions imposed on the regime
in Tehran. The bill also provides for a congressional review process for national security interest waivers of these
sanctions, if Iran continues its support for global terror. The U.S. House of Representatives passed Rep. Kim's H.R.
6323 on Wednesday, April 17.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on National Security, Illicit Finance, and International Financial Institutions,
led by Subcommittee Vice Chair Young Kim (CA-40), held a hearing called "Held for Ransom: How Ransomware
Endangers Our Financial System." Members gained a deeper understanding of the inner workings and long-term
impacts of one of the leading cyber threats facing our nation today.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Monetary Policy, led by Chairman Andy Barr
(KY-06), held a hearing called "Agency Audit: Reviewing CFPB Financial Reporting and Transparency." Lawmakers
examined the consequences of a rogue CFPB and explored the steps Congress must take to rein in the CFPB to
better protect our citizens from an unchecked federal bureaucracy.

                                                                                                     Page 5 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

On Tuesday, April 16, the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Patrick McHenry (NC-10), led
debate on the House floor in support of H.R. 6323, the Iran Counterterrorism Act of 2023. H.R. 6323 is about
ensuring that waivers benefitting the Iranian government receive an appropriate vetting in Congress.

On Tuesday, April 16, the U.S. House of Representatives passed four pieces of bipartisan financial services
legislation to hold Iran accountable for acts of international aggression and financing of terrorism. The measures
passed by the House include:

H.R. 5923, the Iran-China Energy Sanctions Act of 2023 (Lawler)

H.R. 5921, the No U.S. Financing for Iran Act of 2023 (Huizenga)

H.R. 6245, the Holding Iranian Leaders Accountable Act (Hill)

H.R. 6015, the Iran Sanctions Accountability Act of 2023 (Luetkemeyer)

On Wednesday, April 17, the Financial Services Committee, led by Chairman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), reported
13 pieces of legislation out of Committee to the full House for consideration. Included among the measures is a
slate of Congressional Review Act (CRA) resolutions to nullify a series of gross regulatory oversteps on the part of
Biden's regulators. The Committee also considered measures to preserve and promote innovation in financial
services and correct provisions in existing law that are being exploited for uses other than their intended purposes.
The measures reported to the full House include:

H.R. 5535, the Insurance Data Protection Act (Fitzgerald)

H.R. 802, the Respect State Housing Laws Act (Loudermilk)

H.R. 7437, the Fostering the Use of Technology to Uphold Regulatory Effectiveness in Supervision Act (Houchin)

H.R. 7440, the Financial Services Innovation Act of 2024 (McHenry)

H.R. 7428, the Earned Wage Access Consumer Protection Act (Steil)

H.R. 4206, the Bank Safety Act of 2023 (Sherman)

H.R. 4116, the Systemic Risk Authority Transparency Act (Green)

H.J. Res. 127, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to "The Enhancement and Standardization of
Climate-Related Disclosures for Investors" (Huizenga)

H.J. Res. 122, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relating to "Credit Card Penalty Fees (Regulation Z)"
(Barr)

H.J. Res. 120, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Financial Stability Oversight Council related to "Guidance on Nonbank Financial Company
Determinations" (Hill)

H.J. Res. 125, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System relating to "Principles for Climate-Related
Financial Risk Management for Large Financial Institutions" (Fitzgerald)

H.J. Res. 126, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation relating to "Principles for Climate-Related Financial Risk
Management for Large Financial Institutions" (Houchin)

                                                                                                     Page 6 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

H.J. Res. 124, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency relating to "Principles for Climate-Related Financial Risk
Management for Large Financial Institutions" (Donalds)

Foreign Affairs

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Middle East, North Africa, and Central Asia and the Subcommittee
on Europe held a joint hearing called "The Despotic Duo: Russo-Iranian Cooperation and Threats to U.S. Interests."
During the hearing, witnesses answered questions regarding the relationship between Russia and Iran, further
underscoring how America's adversaries are working together to undermine Western values, democracy, and U.S.
national security.

Homeland Security

On Tuesday, April 16, the Committee on Homeland Security held a hearing entitled "A Review of the Fiscal Year
2025 Budget Request for the Department of Homeland Security." In the hearing, Secretary Mayorkas failed to
sufficiently answer questions from members concerning the ongoing national security threats posed by individuals
on the terrorist watchlist who cross the vulnerable Southwest border, what part of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (INA) gives him the authority to grant mass parole for inadmissible aliens, and why his department is not
properly utilizing or requesting sufficient Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detention beds. When the
Secretary attempted to shift the blame to Congress, members reiterated that the Senate has not taken up or passed
House Republicans' H.R. 2, the Secure the Border Act, which is the strongest border security legislation passed by
Congress in history.

Following the hearing, House impeachment managers delivered the articles of impeachment against DHS
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas to the Senate, and joined senators to urge the Democrat-led Senate to respect
precedent, hold a trial, and hear the evidence against Secretary Mayorkas.

House Administration

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Oversight held a hearing called "Three Years Later: D.C. National
Guard Whistleblowers Speak Out on January 6 Delay." This hearing featured testimony from four D.C. National
Guardsmen, claiming that DoD delayed their response to the Capitol on January 6, 2021 because they didn't like
the "optics." When these Guardsmen tried to come forward and tell the Democrat's Select Committee on January
6th the truth, they were ignored.

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence

On Tuesday, April 16, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Mike Turner and Ranking
Member Jim Himes urged the House of Representatives to pass legislation authorizing aid to Ukraine.

On Wednesday, April 17, the House Intelligence Committee held an open panel with former Members of Congress
who, during their time in office, served as members of HPSCI.

Former Representatives Jane Harman, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Peter King, and Jim Cooper discussed the national
security threats facing the United States and the importance of standing with our allies around the globe.

Judiciary

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Limited Government held a hearing called
"Liberty, Tyranny, and Accountability: Covid-19 and the Constitution," to examine the federal and state responses to
the Covid-19 pandemic and the effects on the civil liberties of Americans.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Judiciary Committee held a markup session to consider the following legislation:

H.R. 1631, the Protecting and Enhancing Public Access to Codes Act (Issa)

                                                                                                     Page 7 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

H.R. 7737, the One Agency Act (Cline)

H.R. 3591, the Asylum Accountability Act (Rouzer)

H.R. 3269, the Law Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act (Stanton)

H.R. 7581, the Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act

H.R. 4951, the Ensuring Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act (Van Drew)

This markup worked on legislation regarding Law Enforcement and immigration as well as the antitrust enforcement
of the FTC.

Natural Resources

On Tuesday, April 16, the Committee on Natural Resources held a markup on the following bills:

H.R. 5015, the Seedlings for Sustainable Habitat Restoration Act of 2023 (Fernandez)

H.R. 6482, the Enhancing Geothermal Production on Federal Lands Act (Fulcher)

H.R. 7003, the National Landslide Preparedness Act Reauthorization Act of 2024 (DelBene)

H.R. 7370, the Geothermal Energy Opportunity (GEO) Act (Curtis)

H.R. 7375, To amend the Mineral Leasing Act to improve the assessment of expression of interest fees, and for
other purposes (Hageman)

H.R. 7377, the Royalty Resiliency Act (Hunt)

H.R. 7408, the America's Wildlife Habitat Conservation Act (Westerman)

H.R. 7409, the Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources (HEATS) Act (Kim)

H.R. 7422, the Geothermal Cost-Recovery Authority Act of 2024 (Ocasio-Cortez)

This markup focused on legislation to secure our energy independence and promote responsible conservation
reforms through the Chairman's America's Wildlife Habitat Conservation Act which would work to empower states to
take the lead on conservation efforts across the country and recover endangered species by restoring their habitats.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Federal Lands held a legislative hearing on the following bill:

Discussion Draft of H.R. ___, To expedite under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and improve forest
management activities on National Forest System lands, on public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of
Land Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to overgrown, fire-prone forested lands, and for other
purposes (Westerman)

At this hearing on the Chairman's forestry bill, members heard from Forest Service officials and forestry experts
from around the country on draft legislation that includes solutions to address emergency wildfire risks, protect
communities, provide greater transparency and technology and ultimately help solve the wildfire crisis.

On Thursday, April 18, the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources held an oversight hearing titled
"Assessing Solutions to Secure America's Offshore Energy Future." This hearing allowed members to hear from
experts in the field and learn more about the potential solutions to improve the information we have about our
energy resources and ensure that the United States maintains its competitive edge in the global energy market,
leverages its natural resources effectively, and achieves greater energy security.

Oversight and Accountability

                                                                                                       Page 8 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on National Security, the Border, and Foreign Affairs held a hearing called
"How the Border Crisis Impacts Public Safety." Members discussed how the Biden Administration's border policies
have led to many criminal illegal aliens not being deported and allowed to roam and harm U.S. communities across
the nation. Members also discussed how these crimes are preventable through rigorous enforcement of U.S.
immigration law.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic held a hearing titled "Academic
Malpractice: Examining the Relationship Between Scientific Journals, the Government, and Peer Review."
Members explored any potential inappropriate influence exerted by the federal government related to COVID-19
over research publications.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Committee on Oversight and Accountability held a full committee hearing called
"Defending America from the Chinese Communist Party's Political Warfare, Part I." At the hearing, experts outlined
how the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is waging an influence and infiltration campaign that threatens U.S.
military readiness, the technology sector, financial markets, the agriculture industry, education systems, intellectual
property, and federal government agencies. In addition, experts emphasized the CCP's ongoing political warfare
seeks to manipulate the public and these tactics jeopardize the safety of all Americans. Members concluded that
the House Oversight Committee has a responsibility to ensure the federal government is using all existing
resources effectively to thwart China's political warfare and examine solutions that agencies can adopt to eliminate
CCP threats.

On Thursday, April 18, the Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Energy Policy, and Regulatory Affairs held a
hearing called "Oversight of the Biden Administration's Pause on Liquified Natural Gas Exports." At the hearing,
members pressed the Biden Administration official testifying before the subcommittee on the inherent political
nature behind the Department of Energy's (DOE) pause in permitting of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) exports and
highlighted how the permitting pause drives geopolitical risk for the U.S. and forces our allies abroad to seek energy
from hostile foreign governments.

Rules

On Monday, April 15, the Rules Committee met on the following measures:

H. Res. 1143, Condemning Iran's unprecedented drone and missile attack on Israel (Kean)

H.R. 6046, the Standing Against Houthi Aggression Act (Clyde)

H.R. 6323, the Iran Counterterrorism Act of 2023 (Kim)

H.R. 4691, the Iran Sanctions Relief Review Act of 2023 (Self)

H.R. 5947, To provide for the rescission of certain waivers and licenses relating to Iran, and for other purposes
(Pfluger)

H.R. 4639, the Fourth Amendment Is Not For Sale Act (Davidson)

On Wednesday, April 17, the Rules Committee met on the following measure:

H.R. 3602, the Transnational Criminal Organization Illicit Spotter Prevention and Elimination Act (Ciscomani)

On Thursday, April 18, the Rules Committee met on the following measures:

H.R. 8034, the Israel Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024 (Cole)

H.R. 8035, the Ukraine Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024 (Cole)

H.R. 8036, the Indo-Pacific Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024 (Cole)

                                                                                                      Page 9 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

H.R. 8038, the 21st Century Peace through Strength Act (McCaul)

Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party

On Tuesday, April 16, the Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party held a hearing to unveil a new
investigation into the Chinese Communist Party's role fueling the fentanyl crisis in the United States. The bipartisan
findings revealed, for the first time, the depth of Chinese Communist Party complicity in the fentanyl epidemic and
the motives behind it.

On Wednesday, April 17, Chairman Mike Gallagher (R-WI) introduced a bill, alongside Reps. Jimmy Panetta (D-
CA), John Moolenaar (R-MI), and Jared Golden (D-ME), to impose sanctions on any Chinese military firm that
provides material support to Russia. The bill, called the NO LIMITS Act, also gives Chinese military firms identified
by the U.S. government 180 days to withdraw from the Russian market or face full, blocking sanctions.

On Thursday, April 18, Chairman Mike Gallagher (R-WI) and Ranking Member Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL) of the
House Select Committee on the Strategic Competition between the United States and the Chinese Communist
Party (CCP) unveiled the findings of their bipartisan investigation into the world's foremost index provider, MSCI.,
and the world's largest asset manager, BlackRock. The investigation also included a canvass of the broader U.S.
financial industry. The lawmakers found that index providers and asset managers, on an industry-wide basis,
facilitated investment of more than $6.5 billion to 63 PRC companies that the United States government has red-
flagged or blacklisted for advancing People's Republic of China (PRC) military capabilities or supporting its human
rights abuses.

Small Business

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Tax, and Capital Access held a hearing called
"Exploring SBA Programs: Reviewing the SBIC and SBIR Programs' Impact on Small Businesses." Members heard
from witnesses how both the SBIC and SBIR programs benefit small businesses as well as potential improvements
to the programs to make them more successful.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Committee on Small Business held a full committee markup of the following
legislation:

H.R. 7948, the Rural Small Business Resilience Act (Pappas)

H.R. 5333, the Investing in All of America Act of 2023 (Meuser)

H.R. 8014, the Transparency and Predictability in Small Business Opportunities Act (Mfume)

H.R. 7987, the Plain Language in Contracting Act (LaLota)

H.R. 7988, the Small Business Procurement and Utilization Reform (SPUR) Act of 2024 (Stauber)

H.R. 7985, the Entrepreneurs with Disabilities Reporting Act of 2024 (McGarvey)

H.R. 7989, the ThinkDIFFERENTLY About Disability Employment Act (Molinaro)

Transportation and Infrastructure

This week, the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved an updated roster to reflect the addition of
Rep. Kevin Kiley (R-CA) to TandI.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Committee held a roundtable discussion on the role of artificial intelligence (AI) in
transportation. Members and the invited panelists discussed the real-world applications of AI in the transportation
sector as well as the economic impact and security risks associated with this developing technology.

                                                                                                   Page 10 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials held a hearing
entitled "Getting to Work: Examining Challenges and Solutions in the Commuter Rail Industry." Subcommittee
Members used the hearing to discuss the state of commuter passenger rail. Specifically, Members spoke about the
need to ensure that Federal policies and spending are balanced with a realistic analysis of consumer demand for
commuter rail and the best use of taxpayer dollars.

Veterans Affairs

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs held a markup on the
following legislation:

H.R. 1083, the Caring for Survivors Act of 2023 (Hayes)

H.R. 2911, the Fairness for Servicemembers and their Families Act of 2023 (Strickland)

H.R. 3651, the Love Lies On Act of 2023 (Phillips)

H.R. 7100, the Prioritizing Veterans' Survivors Act (Ciscomani)

H.R. 7150, the Survivor Benefits Delivery Improvement Act of 2024 (Takano)

H.R. 7777, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2024 (Luttrell)

H.R. 7793, the Veterans Appeals Options Expansion Act of 2024 (Bost)

H.R. 7816, the Clear Communications for Veterans Claims Act (Duarte)

H.R. 7883, the Toxic Exposures Examination Improvement Act (Self)

H.R. 7917, the Veterans Appeals Efficiency Act of 2024 (Bost)

H.R. 7919, the Veterans Claims Quality Improvement Act of 2024 (Luttrell)

The Subcommittee voted to favorably forward to the Full Committee two en blocs of legislation that aim to ensure
reviews on whether amounts of life insurance coverage are keeping pace with the inflation faced by veterans'
families; make the V.A. claims and appeals process more understandable for veterans and their survivors by
providing them with clearer updates and instructions; ensure that veterans receive faster and more accurate
decisions on their claims and appeals for V.A. benefits; ensure veterans' benefits keep pace with inflation; provide
veterans with more choices to control how and when their claims are processed by V.A.; improve access to V.A.
benefits for veterans' spouses after the loss of their loved one, and increase the compensation that survivors are
eligible for; decrease the number of unnecessary disability compensation examinations that are causing delays in
claims processing; and ensure that V.A. gives equal attention to the needs of our nation's veterans as well as their
survivors.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Health held a markup on the following legislation:

H.R. 3225, the BUILD for Veterans Act of 2023 (Deluzio)

H.R. 3303, the Maternal Health for Veterans Act (Underwood)

H.R. 3644, the ACT for Veterans Act (Latta)

H.R. 3649, the Veterans National Traumatic Brain Injury Treatment Act (Murphy)

H.R. 4424, the Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act (LaLota)

H.R. 5247, the Expedited Hiring for VA Trained Psychiatrists Act of 2023 (Cartwright)

                                                                                                      Page 11 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

H.R. 5530, the VA Emergency Transportation Access Act (Bost)

H.R. 5794, the Veterans Affairs Peer Review Neutrality Act of 2023 (Dingell)

H.R. 6324, the Fiscal Year 2024 Veterans Affairs Major Medical Facility Authorization Act (Bost)

H.R. 6373, the Veterans STAND Act (Bergman)

H.R. 7347, To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to report on whether
the Secretary will include certain psychedelic drugs in the formulary of the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
Lease Resolution" (Van Orden)

These bills would expand health care to our nation's veterans by: expanding research into non-opioid therapies,
expediting clinician hiring, increasing efforts on suicide prevention, improving access to exoskeleton devices for
veterans in need, and many other things. All of these bills were referred favorably to the Full Committee. In addition,
10 new minor VA medical facility leases were approved.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a markup on the following
legislation:

H.R. 6452, the Veterans Scam and Fraud Evasion Act of 2023 (Stefanik)

H.R. 6531, the TRAIN VA Employees Act (Pappas)

H.R. 6538, the VA Correct Compensation Act of 2023 (Takano)

H.R. 6874, the VA WEB Act (Rosendale)

H.R. 6947, the Veterans Affairs Centennial and Heritage Act of 2024 (Turner)

H.R. 7342, the Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of 2024 (Valadao)

H.R. 7713, the VA Political Performance Disclosure Act (Bergman)

H.R. 7734, To amend title 38, United States Code, to require a notation in the personnel record file of certain
employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs who resign from Government employment under certain
circumstances (Franklin)

H.R. 7765, the VA Security Screening Pilot Program Act (Williams)

The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee conducted a markup which included a variety of legislation that
would improve operations and accountability within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Subcommittee
forwarded favorably all bills by voice vote to Full Committee, including legislation which would create an officer
responsible for combatting fraudsters who target veterans, force VA to monitor and report issues with its website,
preserve VA's history, focus VA's attention on veterans with disabilities, and ensure employees don't escape
discipline by resigning from VA.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity held a markup on the following legislation:

H.R. 6225, the Expanding Home Loans for Guard and Reservists Act (Ryan)

H.R. 6656, the Stuck on Hold Act (Calvert)

H.R. 7323, the Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserves Tuition Fairness Act (Van Orden)

H.R. 7613, the Veterans Flight Training Responsibility Act of 2024 (Kean)

H.R. 7643, the Veterans Congressional Work Study Act of 2024 (Takano)

                                                                                                            Page 12 of 13
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

H.R. 7653, the VERY Act of 2024 (Davis)

H.R. 7732, the ETS Act (Van Orden)

These bills would create a call-back option for veterans calling VA Benefits office when the wait time is over 10
minutes and allow veterans to use Chapter 1606 Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve in-state tuition in another
state through a waiver. Additionally, this legislation would increase the completion speed for student veterans in
flight training and increase fiscal protections for veterans enrolled in flight training at certain institutions. Finally, the
considered legislation would enhance the Transition Assistance Program by increasing accountability, creating a
new TAP track for Guard and Reserves, and advancing bipartisan proposals to improve the TAP program.
Republicans favor these bills because they improve education and provide fiscal responsibility while better
preparing our veterans and their families for their transition back into civilian life.

Ways and Means

On Tuesday, April 16, the Committee on Ways and Means held a full committee hearing called "Hearing on the
Biden Administration's 2024 Trade Policy Agenda with United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai." The
Biden Administration's trade agenda is not much of an "agenda",does little to advance the interests of American
workers and producers, and has ceded the playing field to China, members warned during a hearing with the U.S.
Trade Representative, Ambassador Katherine Tai. The Biden Administration has no meaningful plan to work with
allies to shift the supply chain from China or consistently enforce trade agreements with trading partners.

On Tuesday, April 16, the Subcommittee on Social Security held a hearing titled "Hearing on the Windfall
Elimination Provision and Government Pension Offset." The Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) and Government
Pension Offset (GPO) unfairly harm many public servants while allowing others to receive overly generous benefits.
Witnesses identified how the outdated formulas used to calculate the WEP and GPO create unfair outcomes for
beneficiaries affected by one or both policies. As Congress examines solutions and reforms to address the issue,
witnesses warned against overcorrecting: treating the 4 percent of beneficiaries better than the other 96 percent of
Social Security beneficiaries unaffected by this problem.

On Wednesday, April 17, the Committee on Ways and Means held a markup on the following legislation:

H.R. 5179, the Anti-BDS Labeling Act (Tenney)

H.R. 7981, the Stop China's Exploitation of Congolese Children and Adult Forced Labor through Cobalt Mining Act
(Smith)

H.R. 7979, the End China's De Minimis Abuse Act (Murphy)

H.R. 7983, the Stop Executive Overreach on Trade Agreements (Fischbach)

H.R. 7980, the End Chinese Dominance of Electric Vehicles in America Act of 2024 (Miller)

H.R. 7986, the Generalized System Preferences Reform Act (Smith)

The Ways and Means Committee advanced six bills that take significant and historic steps to counter China's unfair
trade practices and protect American producers. These policies will stymie China's attempts to exploit American
trade and tax programs to fuel its growing global influence, including legislation to reform the General System of
Preferences (GSP) and end abuse of the de minimis privilege.

Legislation passed by the Committee removes China and its unfair trade practices from U.S. supply chains. Those
policies require the Biden Administration to block cobalt mined with forced labor in Chinese-owned mines in the
Democratic Republic of Congo and close Biden Administration loopholes allowing Chinese billionaires and
manufacturers to benefit from U.S. tax dollars. The Committee voted to end the Biden Administration's unlawful
attempt to circumvent Congress to provide more tax credits to foreign interests by claiming that a made-up "critical

                                                                                                  Page 13 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 15, 2024

mineral agreement" counts as a free trade agreement an action by the Administration that does nothing to reduce
American dependence on China for critical minerals.

As part of Congress's commitment to support America's ally Israel, the Committee also passed legislation to protect
Israel from targeting by the anti-semitic boycott, divestment, and sanctions (BDS) movement.


Load-Date: April 21, 2024


  
