

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
      KIOXIA Joins Hewlett Packard Enterprise Servers on Space Launch Destined for the International Space
                     Station HPE Spaceborne Computer-2 Features KIOXIA Value SAS....




KIOXIA Joins Hewlett Packard Enterprise Servers on Space Launch Destined
 for the International Space Station; HPE Spaceborne Computer-2 Features
   KIOXIA Value SAS, Enterprise SAS and NVMe SSDs, Enables Scientific
            Experiments with Over 130TB of Data Storage Capacity
                                                  Business Wire
                                     January 30, 2024 Tuesday 5:29 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 948 words
Dateline: CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.

Body


Today, KIOXIA SSDs took flight with the launch of the NG-20 mission rocket, which is delivering an updated HPE
Spaceborne Computer-2, based on HPE EdgeLine and ProLiant servers from Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE), to
the International Space Station (ISS). KIOXIA SSDs provide robust flash storage in HPE Spaceborne Computer-2
to conduct scientific experiments aboard the space station.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.            View       the      full     release      here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240129234463/en/

KIOXIA SSDs provide robust flash storage in HPE Spaceborne Computer-2 to conduct scientific experiments
aboard the space station. (Photo: Business Wire)

HPE Spaceborne Computer-2, based on commercial off-the-shelf technology, provides edge computing and AI
capabilities on board the research outpost as part of a greater mission to significantly advance computing power in
space and reduce dependency on communications as space exploration continues to expand. Designed to perform
various high-performance computing (HPC) workloads in space, including real-time image processing, deep
learning, and scientific simulations, HPE Spaceborne Computer-2 can be used to compute a number of experiment
types including healthcare, natural disaster recovery, 3D printing, 5G, AI, and more.

As the data storage provider for the HPE Spaceborne Computer-2, KIOXIA has provided flash memory-based
SSDs, including KIOXIA RM Series value SAS, PM6 Series enterprise SAS and XG Series NVMeTM SSDs, to
enable these advancements. In addition to eight 1,024 gigabyte (GB) NVMe and four 960GB value SAS SSDs,
each of the four enterprise SAS SSDs provided by KIOXIA have a capacity of 30.72 terabytes (TB) for a total of
more than 130TB - the most data storage to travel to the space station on a single mission.1

Flash memory-based SSDs are better-suited than traditional hard disk drive storage to withstand the power,
performance and reliability requirements of outer space, as they have no moving parts, are less susceptible to
electromagnetic waves and provide faster performance. SSD health will be monitored daily throughout the duration

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
     KIOXIA Joins Hewlett Packard Enterprise Servers on Space Launch Destined for the International Space
                    Station HPE Spaceborne Computer-2 Features KIOXIA Value SAS....

of the mission, with daily log files transmitted from the ISS. KIOXIA will track and analyze this health data in order to
better understand how flash memory storage operates in the harsh environment of space.

"The convergence of memory technology and space exploration are set to take scientific discovery and innovation
beyond the confines of Earth," said Caesar Ichimura, Chief Marketing Officer, KIOXIA Corporation. "KIOXIA is
proud to be a part of this mission, taking science and information technology to the next level."

KIOXIA has been collaborating with HPE to create best-in-class storage solutions for years, and the company's
products enable a broad range of HPE solutions and services, from mobile to the cloud to the enterprise.

"We're extremely proud to return to space, building on the success of the HPE Spaceborne Computer's previous
missions to help enhance the pace of insight and innovation within the scientific community," said Jim Jackson,
Chief Marketing Officer, HPE. "We're pleased to work with KIOXIA as we continue to push the boundaries of what
HPE's state-of-the-art system can do with additional storage, such as enabling much more sophisticated research
aboard the space station to help make significant breakthroughs."

For more information, please visit www.kioxia.com , and follow the company on X, formerly known as Twitter and
LinkedIn ®

About KIOXIA America, Inc.

KIOXIA America, Inc. is the U.S.-based subsidiary of KIOXIA Corporation , a leading worldwide supplier of flash
memory and solid-state drives (SSDs). From the invention of flash memory to today's breakthrough BiCS
FLASH(TM) 3D technology, KIOXIA continues to pioneer innovative memory, SSD and software solutions that
enrich people's lives and expand society's horizons. The company's innovative 3D flash memory technology, BiCS
FLASH, is shaping the future of storage in high-density applications, including advanced smartphones, PCs, SSDs,
automotive, and data centers. For more information, please visit KIOXIA.com .

© 2024 KIOXIA America, Inc. All rights reserved. Information in this press release, including product pricing and
specifications, content of services, and contact information is current and believed to be accurate on the date of the
announcement, but is subject to change without prior notice. Technical and application information contained here
is subject to the most recent applicable KIOXIA product specifications.

Notes:

1: As of January 30, 2024. Kioxia Corporation survey.

Definition of capacity: KIOXIA Corporation defines a megabyte (MB) as 1,000,000 bytes, a gigabyte (GB) as
1,000,000,000 bytes and a terabyte (TB) as 1,000,000,000,000 bytes. A computer operating system, however,
reports storage capacity using powers of 2 for the definition of 1GB = 2^30 bytes = 1,073,741,824 bytes and 1TB =
2^40 bytes = 1,099,511,627,776 bytes and therefore shows less storage capacity. Available storage capacity
(including examples of various media files) will vary based on file size, formatting, settings, software and operating
system, and/or pre-installed software applications, or media content. Actual formatted capacity may vary.

NVMe is a registered or unregistered mark of NVM Express, Inc. in the United States and other countries.

LinkedIn is a trademark of LinkedIn Corporation and its affiliates in the United States and/or other countries.

Other company names, product names, and service names may be trademarks of third-party companies.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240129234463/en/


CONTACT: Media Contact:
Dena Jacobson

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
     KIOXIA Joins Hewlett Packard Enterprise Servers on Space Launch Destined for the International Space
                    Station HPE Spaceborne Computer-2 Features KIOXIA Value SAS....

Lages & Associates
Tel: (949) 453-8080

dena@lages.com Company Contact:
Mia Cool
KIOXIA America, Inc.
Tel: (408) 526-3087

mia.cool@kioxia.com


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


KIOXIA SSDs provide robust flash storage in HPE Spaceborne Computer-2 to conduct scientific experiments
aboard the space station. (Photo: Business Wire)


Load-Date: January 30, 2024


  
