

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 7
                                      2023 UNM RESEARCH NEWS YEAR-IN-REVIEW




                          2023 UNM RESEARCH NEWS YEAR-IN-REVIEW
                                                       US Fed News
                                            January 2, 2024 Tuesday 12:31 PM EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 4034 words

Body


ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., Jan. 2 -- The University of New Mexico issued the following news release:

University Communication and Marketing (UCAM) annually compiles a Year-in-Review highlighting both its general
and researchnews and feature stories across campus during the course of the calendar year.In this Research Year-
in-Review, The University of New Mexico conducted a wide variety of research in many areas with worldwide
impact. UNM scientists were at the forefront from solar system exploration to chimpanzee menopause to the power
of plants to uranium waste solutions and the disintegration of Mayan societies.

Below is a select list based on the top 2023 news stories highlighting a number of research accomplishments.Click
on the headline to read the full story for each listing.The list below isin random order.

RESEARCH

UNM selected as one of five new research teams for NASA's Solar System Exploration Research Virtual Institute

For the first time in more than 50 years, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) will be sending
astronauts to the moon - and an interdisciplinary group of experts at UNMhas been selectedas one of five new
teams to support the scientific preparations for this momentous effort. Led by Sr. Research Scientist of theInstitute
of Meteoritics(IOM) and Research Professor at theDepartment of Earth & Planetary Sciences, Charles "Chip"
Shearer, the Center for Advanced Sample Analysis of Astromaterials from the Moon and Beyond (CASA Moon) will
receive $7.5 million over the next five years to study the lunar crust through lunar sample analysis.

New study shows chimpanzees experience menopause

UNM Professor of Anthropology and Director of the Comparative Human and Primate Physiology Center Melissa
Emery Thompson has worked on research that examines the aging process in chimpanzees. In many ways they
resemble their closest living relatives, humans. New research titledDemographic and hormonal evidence for
menopause in wild chimpanzeespublished recentlyshows that at least one group of older female chimpanzees
experience menopause, a trait shared only by a small number of whale species and, of course, female humans.

Kenya research trip teaches students to use all senses

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 7
                                2023 UNM RESEARCH NEWS YEAR-IN-REVIEW

Kelly Miller, Biology professor and curator of Arthropods at the Museum of Southwestern Biology at The University
of New Mexico, wants his students to use all their senses, think in new and creative ways, and examine their
subjects from unusual and unexpected angles. With this philosophy of teaching in mind, Miller took a class of
undergraduate students in 2022 to Kenya where they used all their senses to learn.

Thunderstorms clumping together: How understanding water vapor helps scientists predict future climate change

A team of international scientists from the USA, France, Germany, and Ethiopia recently published cutting-edge
climate research on how thunderstorms can "clump" together and how that influences the Earth's climate. This led
to the discovery that this clumping, or aggregation, of clouds, can affect the Earth's climate in multiple ways that
were not previously understood. The research titled "The Influence of Convective Aggregation on the Stable
Isotopic Composition of Water Vapor" was recently published in the prestigious journal AGU Advances.

Tracking local sea ice using distributed acoustic sensing and machine learning

Researchers from the University of New Mexico and Sandia National Laboratories recently created a way to track
local sea ice using a telecommunications fiber optic cable, located in Alaska, combined with Machine Learning
algorithms to analyze ground vibrations due to ocean waves. The research, titled "Tracking Local Sea Ice Extent in
the Beaufort Sea Using Distributed Acoustic Sensing and Machine Learning," examines a fiber optic cable
positioned offshore of Oliktok Point, Alaska.

Scientists detect and validate the longest-period exoplanet found with TESS

Scientists from The University of New Mexico and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have detected and
validated two of the longest-period exoplanets found by TESS to date. These long-period large exoplanets orbit a K
dwarf star and belong to a class of planets known as warm Jupiter's, which have orbital periods of 10-200 days and
are at least six times Earth's radius.

The power of plants and how they are changing the way we eat and live

Plant-based eating and veganism have been around for decades, but more people are choosing plant-based diets
than ever before. Plant-based eating means eating more fruits, vegetables, nuts, grains and beans while eating less
or no meat, dairy or animal products. A UNM business school researcher has studied the reasons behind this trend.

Scientists investigate Grand Canyon's ancient past to predict future climate impacts

The Grand Canyon's valleys and millions of years of rock layers spanning Earth's history have earned it a
designation as one of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World. However, according to a new study involving
scientists at UNM and UNLV, its marvels extend to vast cave systems that lie beneath the surface, which just might
hold clues to better understand the future of climate change - by studying nature's past.

Medical Cannabis patients who feel 'high' report greater symptom relief but increased negative side effects

In a new study titled, "Understanding Feeling 'High' and Its Role in Medical Cannabis Patient Outcomes," published
in the journal,Frontiers in Pharmacology,researchers at The University of New Mexico, in collaboration with Releaf
App&#8482; found that patients who reported feeling "High" experienced 7.7% greater symptom relief and an
increase in reporting of positive side effects such as "Relaxed" and "Peaceful." However, these benefits must be
weighed against a more than 20% increase in negative side effect reporting.

Drones for Ducks: Researchers develop AI to measure migratory bird populations

An idea to simplify how migratory populations of ducks, geese and cranes are counted first hatched around a
campfire. The project took flight in Bosque Del Apache earlier this month for its first-ever waterfowl survey. Every
winter, wildlife managers are challenged to count the migratory waterfowl that fly down into refuges. Now,
researchers at The University of New Mexico, in collaboration with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in the

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 7
                                  2023 UNM RESEARCH NEWS YEAR-IN-REVIEW

Department of the Interior, are working to develop a machine-learning model prototype that can count the birds
using images taken by drones in a project titled Drones for Ducks.

UNM project brings together diverse team to develop solutions to uranium waste in Native communities

A new National Science Foundation-funded project is tackling a perplexing problem - that of the toxic heavy metals
left behind after uranium mining in Native American communities in New Mexico - from a multifaced angle. Instead
of offering a top-down, one-size-fits-all approach to this problem that is contaminating water supplies -
disproportionally impacting socioeconomically-challenged communities - this project is seeking solutions from a
cross-disciplinary team, which includes Native Americans themselves (including several research team members)
and their cultural knowledge.

Scientists revive Stone Age molecules

Breakthroughs in ancient genome reconstruction and biotechnology are now revealing the rich molecular secrets of
Paleolithic microorganisms. In a transdisciplinary study, scientists are rebuilding microbial natural products up to
100,000 years old using dental calculus of humans and Neanderthals. New techniques of reconstructing bacterial
genomes encased within the dental calculus, also known as tooth tartar, from Neanderthals and early forms of
anatomically modern humans could lead to the discovery of new antibiotics, according to a new study.

UNM scientists examine magma accumulation beneath Yellowstone Caldera

Scientists have long been fascinated with Yellowstone National Park and the scientific playground it has provided
the research community over the decades. Seismic tomography has played a key role in that research giving
scientists insights into Yellowstone's crustal magmatic system to understand the melt distribution in the subsurface
and the current stage of the volcano's life cycle.

Finding answers in the coldest place on Earth

For the past 30 years, scientists at The University of New Mexico and throughout the world have been conducting a
large-scale ecological study of the coldest place on Earth in order to understand how life exists in inhospitable
environments, and how climate change is affecting their survival. The work being done at the McMurdo Dry Valleys
Long-term Ecological Research (LTER) project in Antarctica is not only improving our understanding of this unique
ecosystem but providing a blueprint for identifying the effects of past and present climate change throughout the
world.

New research from C&J professor is the bee's knees

One University of New MexicoCommunication & Journalismprofessor is seeing what all the buzz is about-and if he
can change it. Dave Keating is a purveyor ofstrategic communication, which entails the development of a certain
message or campaign meant to reach a certain goal with the audience and the organization behind it. While his
experience and past have centered on communications surrounding tough topics like tobacco use, Keating is
testing a set of communications dedicated towards a smaller topic of conversation: bees.

Hotter and drier conditions limit forest recovery from wildfires

Warmer and drier climate conditions in western U.S. forests are making it less likely that trees can regenerate after
wildfires, according to new research published in theProceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.This study
provides timely information to optimize new state and federal initiatives to increase the pace of ecologically based
forest management across millions of acres of Western forests.

Large-scale genomic analysis documents migrations of Ice Age hunter-gatherers

With the largest dataset of prehistoric European hunter-gatherer genomes ever generated, an international
research team has rewritten the genetic history of Europe's human ancestors. This study involved an international

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 7
                                 2023 UNM RESEARCH NEWS YEAR-IN-REVIEW

collaboration of 125 international scientists including The University of New Mexico Leslie Spier Distinguished
Professor Emeritus of Anthropology Lawrence Straus.

How social media big data helps us better understand social dynamics

If tweets are measured in characters and a picture is worth a thousand words, what do you get when you combine
and examine thousands or even millions of social media posts at once? The answer is a lot of data and researchers
at The University of New Mexico use it to study social dynamics and human behavior.

Researchlooks at origins of presence of horses in North America

Associate Professor of Anthropology Emily Lena Jones at The University of New Mexico, is beginning to refine the
history of the American horse. This work, which embeds cross-disciplinary and cross-cultural research between
western and traditional Indigenous science, was published recently in the journalScience.

Less predictable rainfall may have caused disintegration of early Maya societies

Reduced predictability of seasonal rainfall might have played a significant role in the disintegration of Classic Maya
societies about 1,100 years ago.Decline in seasonal predictability potentially destabilized Classic Maya societiesis a
new study recently published in Communications Earth & Environment. University of New Mexico
archaeologistKeith Prufer is among the authors, along with colleagues at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact
Research (PIK) and Potsdam University. The findings may have significance for populations in the region facing
climate change today.

Awards & Recognition

Celebrating a high-tech history: CHTM commemorates 40th anniversary

Located south of The University of New Mexico's main campus is a powerful technology research center
specializing in lasers, semiconductors, quantum research and more. The Center for High Technology Materials
(CHTM) has a 40-year history of studying the potential devices of tomorrow. The center celebrated its ruby
anniversary on June 15 with a day of presentations, tours and events to commemorate its past and
future.WATCH:CHTM celebrates 40 years

UNM announces 68th Annual Research Lectureship for Career Achievement honoree

University of New Mexico Distinguished Professor Felisa Smith has been named the honoree for the 68thAnnual
Research Lectureship for Career Achievementaward. The ARL is one of the highest honors the University bestows
on its faculty members in recognition of research and/or creative activity of exceptional merit.

The University of New Mexico announces newest Level 2 Grand Challenges

After a highly competitive process, University of New Mexico President Garnett S. Stokes has announced the three
newest multi-disciplinary teams to join the Grand Challenges program as Level 2 teams,Child Health,Just Transition
to Green Energy, andSustainable Space Research.

UNM's Earth & Planetary Sciences receives NSF grant for Grand Canyon research

University of New Mexico Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences Professors Laura Crossey and Karl
Karlstrom have received a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant forDeveloping Partnerships Among Tribes,
Geoscientists, and the National Park Service to Advance Informal Geoscience Learning at Grand Canyon.

UNM biologists part of groundbreaking whale study published in PNAS

In the article titled "Long-term stability in the circumpolar foraging range of a Southern Ocean predator between the
eras of whaling and rapid climate change," Seth Newsome, a professor ofBiologyand associate director of
theCenter for Stable Isotopes (CSI), Geraldine Busquets-Vass, a postdoctoral scientist working at CSI and the

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 7
                                2023 UNM RESEARCH NEWS YEAR-IN-REVIEW

Department of Biology, along with collaborators from 14 countries conducted a truly unique study on the foraging
habits of whales.

UNM student recognized by DOE's Science Graduate Student Research Program

Kylar Greene, a graduate student in the University of New Mexico's Department of Physics and Astronomy, is
among 60 students from across the nation selected by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for the Office of
Science Graduate Student Research (SCGSR) Program's 2023 Solicitation 1 cycle. He will be hosted by Fermi
National Accelerator Laboratory (FNAL). His research will be focusing on theoretical and computational research in
high energy physics.

Researchers dive into freshwater ecosystem focused study with $2.5M DOE grant

If you travel up stream to the tip-top of the headwaters in the San Juan Range of the Colorado Rockies, you'll reach
the very beginning of the Rio Grande River, and what happens at the very top helps determine the quality and
quantity of water that we use every single day. Thosebeginningsare what researchers refer to as headwater stream
networks, making up nearly 80 percent of river miles on earth. However, they are also some of the most overlooked
areas in research within the academy. Now, with the help of a $2.5 milliongrant awarded by the Department of
Energy, The University of New Mexico will lead a group of researchers who will concentrate on five very different
headwater stream networks spread across the U.S. continental precipitation gradient.

Earth and Planetary Sciences Ph.D. student wins first place at National Elevator Pitch competition

Olumide Adedeji, a Ph.D. candidate in the Earth and Planetary Science Department at The University of New
Mexico, achieved a remarkable milestone by securing the first-place prize at the National Elevator Pitch
Competition, organized by the Houston Geological Society. The annual event, in collaboration with prominent
energy companies, is a pivotal platform for the intersection of industry and academia.

Tsiropoulou receives NSF award for innovations in disaster response systems

Eirini Eleni Tsiropoulou, an associate professor in the UNM Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
was recently awarded a National Science Foundation grant for a project that addresses the area of public safety
systems, especially during and after disasters where victims, first responders and emergency control centers must
coordinate efforts for effective rescue missions.

Next Generation Very Large Array unites NRAO & UNM

The National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO)/Associated Universities, Inc. (AUI), and the University of New
Mexico (UNM) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to explore collaborations in support of future
U.S. radio astronomy initiatives.

Peter J. Fawcett professor and chair elected as Fellow of the Geological Society of America

Professor and Chair of the Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Peter J. Fawcett has been elected as a
Fellow of the Geological Society of America (GSA). This honor is bestowed by the Society Fellowship to recognize
the best in their profession.

Oceanic waves represent fundamental challenges in nonlinear science

The instability of Stokes waves (steady propagating waves on the surface of an ideal fluid with infinite depth)
represents a fundamental challenge in the realm of nonlinear science. A team of researchers recently identified
theorigin of breaking oceanic waves in a recent publication in the "Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences."

UNM Engineering researcher leading Department of Energy project on quantum computing

                                                                                                      Page 6 of 7
                                2023 UNM RESEARCH NEWS YEAR-IN-REVIEW

A researcher based in The University of New Mexico School of Engineering is leadingone of 15 projects across the
country receiving $11 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Energy. These projects, announced Aug. 10,
are focused on exploratory research for extreme-scale science that will leverage emerging trends and advances in
high-end computing, massive datasets, scientific machine learning, artificial intelligence, and novel computing
architectures

UNM team takes Smart Acequias project to BioDesign Challenge

Four undergrads at The University of New Mexico have tackled the problem of water scarcity in the southwest
United States by developing a project that would use radar sensors to determine the water levels of the irrigation
channels and connect to an app that would let farmers know when to irrigate their farms.

UNM Department of Physics and Astronomy mourns the loss of Distinguished Professor Mansoor Sheik-Bahae

Distinguished Professor Mansoor Sheik-Bahae, a faculty member in the Department of Physics and Astronomy,
died of complications from cancer on July 10, 2023. There are many tributes being offered in Sheik-Bahae's
memory and all touch on one essential quality - his exceptional humanity.

UNM researchers take a deep dive into our changing planet with SIMReef project

Melanie Moses, professor of computer science, is a co-principal investigator of a National Science Foundation
project called "Emergence of function and dynamics from ecological interaction networks." The $3 million project,
which is a collaboration between multiple universities, is funded through Sept. 30, 2027. The team's goal? To create
a software model called SIMReef that represents millions of fish foraging for algae on coral reefs to understand how
fish, coral and algae interact in a changing ocean to predict how coral can best be protected in increasingly
inhospitable conditions.

Congressmembers, EPA officials attend ceremony to award UNM center $4 million

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) awarded a grant of $4 million to The University of New
Mexico'sSouthwest Environmental Finance Centerat a ceremony in July.

UNM researcher receives $1.5 million to study fetal alcohol exposure and memory

One researcher at The University of New Mexico is leading the charge to better care for and understand a
diagnosis that affects dozens of babies taking their first breath. Psychology Associate Professor Benjamin Clark is
studying memory loss in those affected by Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASDs).

UNM Department of Biology Ph.D. candidate discovers new bird family

For nearly two centuries, researchers have speculated on the classification of two species of shrikes found in
central and southern Africa. Now, because of the simple curiosity of one Ph.D. candidate in theDepartment of
Biology, the longstanding mystery surrounding these birds has finally been solved thanks to modern technology and
the valuable information that museums provide.

The OVPR announces 2023 Globally-Engaged Research Awards winners

The Office of the Vice President for Research, in partnership with the Global Education Office, is excited to
announce the faculty and student winners of this year's Globally-Engaged Research Awards.Theawards aim to
highlight the dynamic international research conducted by UNM students and faculty.

Engineering professor receives 2023 AFOSR Young Investigator Award

Sakineh Chabi, an assistant professor in the UNM Department of Mechanical Engineering, is the recipient of a 2023
Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) Young Investigator Research Program (YIP) award. Chabi's

                                                                                                       Page 7 of 7
                                 2023 UNM RESEARCH NEWS YEAR-IN-REVIEW

project was selected from over 170 proposals. She one of 58 scientists and engineers to be selected for the award,
which granted about $25 million this fiscal year.

UNM student earns prestigious ATLAS Center Fellowship

One physics student at The University of New Mexico is kicking off 2023 by contributing to the largest and most
powerful particle accelerator in the world. Physics & Astronomy Ph.D. studentHijas Farookhas been chosen for an
ATLAS Center fellowship. He will spend six months at theBrookhaven National Laboratory(BNL) in New York
researching particle physics instrumentation.

Neuroscience researcher Mubarak Hussain Syed awarded Sloan Research Fellowship

Mubarak Hussain Syed, an assistant professor of Biology at The University of New Mexico, has been awarded a
2023 Sloan Research Fellowship in Neuroscience from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Winners receive a two-year,
$75,000 fellowship that can be used flexibly to advance the fellow's research. Syed was also named a2023 Young
Investigator granteeby the Brain & Behavior Research Foundation. This year's funding will support 150 promising
early-career scientists across the field of neuropsychiatry with innovative ideas in mental health research. The two-
year grant is expected to provide up to $70,000 per recipient.

A search for answers in ethics: where animals fit in

UNMProfessor Emeritus John Gluckhas dedicated his life to ensuring the focus of research is not just on the end of
the maze, but the rodent participant on the inside. He has made sure to ask: in the course of doing research, what
do we owe to the animals for their sacrifice? It's a question that has persisted for many he's impacted for decades.

UNM professor Milad Marvian wins NSF CAREER Award

Milad Marvian, an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a member of
theCenter for Quantum Information and Control (CQuIC)at The University of New Mexico, has received a National
Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER Award. The award is NSF's most prestigious award in support of junior faculty
who exemplify the role of scholar-teacher, through outstanding research, excellent education, and the integration of
research and education.

UNM Ph.D. candidate awarded NIH fellowship

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is recognizing one University of New Mexico student, and is paying to have
even more people recognize her. Tia Donaldson. a Ph.D. candidate inPsychology, has been awarded an NIH
Travel Fellowship to attend the 2023International Conference on Learning and Memory(LEARNMEM2023).

Engineering students selected for NSF Graduate Research Fellowship awards

Two students in The University of New Mexico School of Engineering have received National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellowship (NSF GRFP) awards in environmental engineering. Carl Abadam and Christine
Gleicher, both students of Anjali Mulchandani, assistant professor of civil, construction and environmental
engineering received the fellowships. For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com


Load-Date: January 3, 2024


  
