

                                                                                             Page 1 of 29
      Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                      Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....




     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on
       Emerging Threats and Spending Oversight Hearing; "Strengthening
      International Cooperation to Stop the Flow of Fentanyl into the United
     States."; Testimony by VANDA FELBAB-BROWN, Director, Initiative on
                Nonstate Armed Actors, The Brookings Institution
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                             March 20, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. SENATE DOCUMENTS
Length: 18542 words

Body


Dear Chairman Hassan, Ranking Member Romney, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee on Emerging
Threats and Spending Oversight Subcommittee of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:

Thank you for holding this hearing entitled, "Strengthening International Cooperation to Stop the Flow of Fentanyl
into the United States." This is a crucial issue that deserves the attention of the subcommittee and its members. I
am honored to have this opportunity to submit this testimony as a statement for the record.

I am a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution where I direct the Initiative on Nonstate Armed Actors and the
Brookings series the Fentanyl Epidemic in North America and the Global Reach of Synthetic Opioids and codirect
the Africa Security Initiative. Illicit economies, such as the drug trade and wildlife trafficking, organized crime,
corruption, and their impacts on U.S. and local security issues around the world are the domain of my work and the
subject of several of the books I have written. I have conducted fieldwork on these issues in Latin America, Asia,
and Africa. In addition to studying China's and Mexico's role in various illegal economies over the past two decades,
I have been directing over the past three years a new Brookings workstream on China's role in illegal economies
and Chinese criminal groups around the world.

The Brookings Institution is a U.S. nonprofit organization devoted to independent research and policy solutions. Its
mission is to conduct high-quality, independent research and, based on that research, to provide innovative,
practical recommendations for policymakers and the public. The testimony that I am submitting represents solely
my personal views, and does not reflect the views of Brookings, its other scholars, employees, officers, and/or
trustees.

Executive summary

U.S. domestic prevention, evidence-based treatment, harm reduction, and law enforcement measures are
fundamental and indispensable for countering the devastating fentanyl crisis. However, given the synthetic opioid

                                                                                            Page 2 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

epidemic's extent and lethality in North America and its likely eventual spread to other parts of the world, even
supply control measures with partial and limited effectiveness can save lives and thus need to be designed smartly
and robustly.

China and Mexico are key actors whose collaboration is necessary for controlling supply. Yet unfortunately the
United States has found establishing counternarcotics cooperation with both countries deeply challenging.

Between August 2002 and November 2023, China ended cooperation altogether because Beijing instrumentalizes
international law enforcement assistance and subordinates it to its geostrategic relationships. A recent U.S.
diplomatic breakthrough with China provides an important promise of strengthened cooperation, the robustness of
which is to be seen.

Mexico eviscerated cooperation to a bare minimum because President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador's
administration has been unwilling and uninterested in mounting any serious law enforcement policy toward Mexican
criminal groups.

Mexico continues to calculate that it can get away with only sporadic, minimal, and inadequate counternarcotics
collaboration as long as it leverages its ability to hamper or permit the flow of undocumented migrants to the U.S.-
Mexico border and as long as the United States depends on it for migration control. If the United States conducted
a comprehensive immigration reform that provided legal work opportunities to those currently seeking protection
and opportunities in the United States through unauthorized migration, it would have far better leverage for inducing
meaningful and robust counternarcotics and law enforcement cooperation from Mexico.

Until 2019, China was the principal source of finished fentanyl for the U.S. illegal market. Since China scheduled
the entire class of fentanyl-type drugs in May 2019, it is the principal source of precursor chemicals for fentanyl.
And since many precursors are dual use, they have not been placed on control schedules. Chinese brokers
knowingly sell these chemicals to Mexican criminal groups for the production of fentanyl.

From the precursors, the Sinaloa Cartel and Cartel Jalisco Nueva Generacion (CJNG) synthesize fentanyl in
Mexico and then smuggle it to the United States.

China

After more than two years of China purposefully denying counternarcotics cooperation to the United States and
failing to mount adequate internal enforcement against precursor flows, Beijing agreed to restart cooperation in
November 2023.

China's principal motivation was to stabilize the U.S.-China relationship.

But adroit and appropriately tough U.S. diplomacy and actions also played an important role in bringing China back
to cooperation. The United States was able to raise China's reputational costs by organizing the Global Coalition to
Address Synthetic Drug Threats and placing China on its annual list of major drug-producing or transit countries.
The U.S. Department of Justice issued a set of innovative and powerful indictments against Chinese networks
selling nonscheduled precursors to Mexican cartels, and the Department of Treasury sanctioned various Chinese
firms for their complicity. The denial of visas to various Chinese officials and business executives also proved an
effective tool.

Nonetheless, China still subordinates its anti-drug and anti-crime cooperation to its strategic calculus and views
counternarcotics and law enforcement cooperation as a strategic tool to leverage for its other objectives. Thus,
even while China's current goal is to reduce tensions, China's drug cooperation is vulnerable to new crises in the
bilateral relationship. Moreover, Beijing rarely acts against the top echelons of large and powerful Chinese criminal
syndicates that provide the Chinese government with various services unless they specifically contradict a narrow
set of interests of the Chinese government.

                                                                                            Page 3 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

To demonstrate its commitment, China took several steps in the run-up to and after the November summit between
President Xi Jinping and President Joe Biden, such as sending out notices to Chinese pharmaceutical companies
that it was stepping up monitoring and shutting down websites selling precursors to Mexican criminal actors.

At the first meeting of the resurrected U.S.-China counternarcotics working group, China agreed to further
cooperation steps, including those it previously denied to the United States, such as joint anti-money laundering
efforts (AML) and cracking down on pill press exports.

Strengthening AML cooperation is all the more important since Chinese money launderers have become some of
the world's leading ones and the to-go-launders for Mexican criminal groups. They utilize a wide range of innovative
methods that avoid international wire transfers and pose particular obstacles for law enforcement.

Worrisomely, Mexican cartels are increasingly sourcing an expanding array of protected and unprotected species in
Mexico coveted in China to pay for fentanyl and methamphetamine precursor chemicals. Because of the potency-
per-weight ratio of synthetic opioids, precursor chemicals for fentanyl and other synthetic opioids are uniquely
suited to be paid for by wildlife products. This method of payment generates dangerous threats to public health and
biodiversity since it can spread zoonotic diseases.

Key indicators of China's seriousness about counternarcotics collaboration include:

* China's responsiveness to U.S. intelligence provision.

* Reciprocal sharing of intelligence.

* Arrests and prosecutions in China.

* The extent and consistency of China's monitoring and regulating of Chinese pharmaceutical and chemical
industries.

* Its willingness to adopt Know-Your-Customer (KYC) laws.

Yet China already warns that it is unlikely to deliver cooperation on several of these elements. Beijing is still
insisting, for example, that it cannot prosecute nonscheduled substances, claiming the lack of material support laws
pertaining to organized crime. Because of economic costs, China also remains unmotivated to mandate and
promote KYC laws.

Mexico

U.S.-Mexico counternarcotics cooperation has become deeply inadequate during the Lopez Obrador administration
in Mexico. From the start of his administration, Lopez Obrador sought to withdraw from the Merida Initiative that
underpinned U.S.-Mexico anti-crime collaboration since 2009. A series of crises in the bilateral relationship have
hollowed out cooperation. The U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe
Communities that replaced the Merida Initiative in the fall of 2021 reiterated many aspects of counternarcotics
cooperation on paper, but on the ground joint counternarcotics cooperation remains weak and insufficient.

Mexico has played an active role in the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats, co-chairing its public
health working group. Yet Lopez Obrador's false claims that no fentanyl is consumed in Mexico and his opposition
to the provision of the overdose medication naloxone undermines the credibility and effectiveness of Mexico's
leadership in that area.

In the spring of 2023, Lopez Obrador also began falsely denying that fentanyl is produced in Mexico.

Aware of the U.S. focus on migration, the Mexican government takes the minimum action necessary to placate the
United States regarding fentanyl.

                                                                                            Page 4 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration's (DEA) operations in Mexico remain hampered, though Homeland
Security Investigations (HSI) has received more cooperation from the Mexican government.

Acting on U.S. intelligence, the Mexican government engages in occasional collaboration in high-value targeting of
key drug cartel leaders. In 2023, the Mexican government arrested and extradited one of the leaders of the Sinaloa
Cartel, Ovidio Guzman Lopez, and later arrested another key Sinaloa operative.

However, the sporadic targeting of an odd member of criminal groups' top echelons, if not accompanied by a
systematic effort to disrupt the groups' middle operational layer and the entire scope of their operations, is
insufficient. At the national level, the Mexican government rarely interferes with criminal groups' operations in any
systematic way.

At the United States' insistence, and as a result of brave journalistic investigative work, the Mexican government did
shut down some of the dangerous and criminal-group-linked pharmacies selling fentanyl- and methamphetamine-
laced drugs and other dangerous and prescription substances, such as antibiotics, without prescription. These
pharmacies are highly dangerous vectors of spreading substance-use disorder and potentially overdose death.
Shutting down these pharmacies is imperative. But effective prosecution of their operators is essential, otherwise
the networks will simply open up new pharmacies selling dangerous drugs.

Similarly, lab busting alone, while necessary, is inadequate since fentanyl and methamphetamine labs are easy to
rebuild. Yet the Mexican government often does not appear to follow lab busts with investigations, arrests, and
prosecutions. Worse, crucial investigations by Reuters have repeatedly revealed that the Mexican government
systematically and grossly exaggerates the numbers of busted labs.

Brave journalistic and research work has been crucial to motivate the Mexican government's enforcement actions.
Yet Mexico is one of the world's most dangerous places for journalists in the world. Lopez Obrador has frequently
lashed out against the media and engaged in a systematic effort to weaken Mexico's checks and balances and
institutions of transparency and accountability. In a recent and particularly troubling case, Lopez Obrador exposed
the photo, phone number, and personal information of the New York Times bureau chief in Mexico who
subsequently suffered serious threats. The U.S. Congress and executive branch must strongly condemn such
actions by the Mexican government, demand they will not be repeated, and take actions to ensure this.

Beyond journalists, honest Mexican officials who want to collaborate with the United States and brave civil society
members, environmental activists, and business community leaders who stand up to the criminal groups at severe
risk to their lives and the lives of their families often find no protection from the Mexican government.

Lopez Obrador's strategy of "hugs, not bullets" toward criminal groups never articulated any security or law
enforcement component. Over time, it became obvious that Lopez Obrador simply does not want to confront the
criminal groups with force. Lopez Obrador abolished the Federal Police, yet the National Guard he created in its
stead does not have any investigative capacities or mandates. It can merely, and often ineffectively, patrol the
streets.

Yet violence in Mexico remains high and brazen and is spreading geographically and into wider aspects of people's
lives. Some of these battles now approximate insurgent battlefields and tactics. Less visible forms of violence--
disappearances and intimidation of civil society activists, business community members, and government officials--
have escalated across the country. Mexico's current elections season is on track to be the most violent ever, with
criminal groups seeking to influence elections at all levels through bribery and intimidation.

Essentially, the Mexican president has hoped that if he does not interfere with Mexico's criminal groups, they will
eventually redivide Mexico's economies and territories among themselves, and violence will subside. That policy
has been disastrous for many reasons: Most importantly, because it further saps the already-weak rule of law in
Mexico, increases impunity, and subjects Mexicans, their institutions, and the legal economies to the Mexican
criminal groups' tyranny.

                                                                                            Page 5 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

Having expanded far beyond illegal commodities, Mexican criminal groups are also increasingly taking over legal
economies, such as fishing, mining, logging, agriculture, alcohol production and retail, and public services such as
water distribution in various parts of Mexico. The takeover goes far beyond extortion and often seeks to control the
entire vertical chain of production. This takeover of legal economies does not only augment the cartels' money
laundering tools and increase their revenues, it is also a means of political control.

Mexican criminal groups' increasing territorial and economic power, brazen violence, takeover of legal economies in
Mexico, and the impunity they enjoy in Mexico raise significant questions about near-shoring to Mexico as a
derisking strategy for China. What kind of supply-chain, legal, and other liabilities and risks are there for U.S.
companies operating in Mexico or with Mexican counterparts amid a collapsing rule of law?

Mexican criminal groups increasingly interact with Chinese criminal groups and fishing fleets. The high presence of
Russian spies in Mexico also raises the possibility of their increased relations with Mexican criminal groups.

Overall, Mexican criminal groups govern an expanding scope of territories, economies, and institutions and people
in Mexico. These profoundly pernicious developments have taken place even as Mexico's economy and public
policy, not just public safety, have become increasingly militarized.

Policy recommendations

Since Mexican drug cartels have diversified their activities into a wide array of illicit and licit commodities, primarily
focusing on drug seizures close to the source is no longer sufficient for effectively disrupting fentanyl smuggling and
criminal networks implicated in it.

Rather, it is imperative to counter all of the Mexican criminal groups' economic activities and their connections to
Chinese criminal actors and political patrons around the world. This includes countering poaching and wildlife
trafficking from Mexico and illegal logging and mining in places where the Mexican cartels have reach, acting
against illegal fishing off Mexico and around Latin America and elsewhere, and shutting down wildlife trafficking
networks into China. These are all increasingly important elements of countering Mexican and Chinese drug-
trafficking groups and reducing the flow of fentanyl to the United States.

Reinforcing U.S.-China cooperation

To motivate China's responsiveness to U.S. intelligence provision and reciprocal sharing, the U.S. Congress could
request regular, if closed-door, reports on these aspects of cooperation.

The U.S. government should also consider the number of arrests and prosecutions in China and the consistency
and extent of China's monitoring of its chemical and pharmaceutical companies, and the removal of websites selling
synthetic drugs to criminal actors as important bases for China's removal from the Majors List.

The United States should continue to strongly encourage China to adopt and enforce KYC laws and punish
violators, being ready to raise the costs of China's KYC non-compliance by denying Chinese suppliers and
industries market access. The United States should continue encouraging China and its chemical and
pharmaceutical industries to adopt the full array of global control standards.

China's willingness to engage bilaterally and multilaterally in AML cooperation against Chinese criminal networks.

The United States should reinforce China's willingness to engage bilaterally and multilaterally in AML cooperation
against Chinese criminal networks.

The United States should continue developing packages of leverage on Chinese actors and when appropriate
continue with its effective policy of denying U.S. visas.

In anticipation of backsliding in China's cooperation, the United States should strengthen multilateral efforts within
the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats. Specifically, it should concentrate on mobilizing a subgroup

                                                                                            Page 6 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

of countries in Southeast Asia and the Pacific region and include methamphetamine in the portfolio of actions.
These countries carry important weight with China on law enforcement efforts.

Inducing cooperation from Mexico

In its law enforcement engagement with the Mexican government, the United States should prioritize:

The United States should also continue to seek the restoration of joint U.S.-Mexico law enforcement operations
inside Mexico and of Mexico's willingness to systematically share samples of seized drugs with U.S. law
enforcement agencies.

The U.S. Congress and executive branch must strongly condemn actions by the Mexican government that threaten
the freedom of the press and jeopardize the safety of journalists, especially when they are U.S. citizens. The U.S.
government should ensure that such actions by the Mexican government will not be repeated.

* Continuously shutting down Mexican pharmacies that sell fentanyl- and methamphetamine-adulterated drugs and
prosecuting the networks that operate them.

* Dismantling drug trafficking networks, particularly their middle-operational layers, not merely interdiction raids on
labs and drug seizures.

* Supporting strengthened Mexican prosecutorial actions against criminal actors.

The United States should also continue to seek the restoration of joint U.S.-Mexico law enforcement operations
inside Mexico, such as the consistent presence of U.S. law enforcement officers during interdiction raids. It should
also continue to request that Mexico systematically shares seized drug samples with U.S. law enforcement
agencies. Such presence would help Mexico's credibility after revelations of how it manipulates law enforcement
action data.

The U.S. Congress and executive branch must strongly condemn actions by the Mexican government that threaten
the freedom of press and jeopardize the safety of journalists, especially when they are U.S. citizens. The U.S.
government should ensure that such actions by the Mexican government will not be repeated.

The United States has various tools to induce better cooperation from Mexico:

Designating Mexican cartels as Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs) would enable intelligence gathering and
strike options for the United States military, such as against some fentanyl labs in Mexico. But the number of
available strike targets in Mexico would be limited, and the strikes would not robustly disrupt the criminal groups.
Neither would the FTO designation add authorities to the economic sanctions and anti-money laundering and
financial intelligence tools that the already-in-place designation of Transnational Criminal Organization carries.
Moreover, such unilateral U.S. military actions in Mexico would severely jeopardize relations with our vital trading
partner and neighbor; the FTO designation could significantly limit and outright hamper other U.S. foreign policy
options, measures, and interests.

The United States should be ready to resort to significantly intensified and intrusive border inspections, even if they
significantly slow down the legal trade and cause substantial damage to Mexican goods, such as agricultural
products.

The United States should develop packages of leverage, including indictment portfolios and visa denials, against
Mexican national security and law enforcement officials and politicians who sabotage rule of law cooperation in
Mexico, facilitate cartel activities, and undermine law enforcement cooperation with the United States.

Expanding and smartening U.S. measures against criminal actors

                                                                                            Page 7 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

The United States also has crucial opportunities to strengthen its own law enforcement actions against dangerous
drug supply by reconceptualizing the counternarcotics effort more broadly as against all activities of criminal actors
smuggling dangerous contraband. This would include:

* Truly adopting a whole-of-government approach to countering fentanyl-smuggling entities.

* Authorizing a wide range of U.S. government agencies, including the Departments of State and Defense, to
support U.S. law enforcement against Mexican and Chinese criminal actors, fentanyl trafficking, and crimes against
nature.

* Collecting relevant intelligence on crimes against nature to uncover criminal linkages to foreign governments and
criminal groups and elevate such intelligence collection in the U.S. National Intelligence Priorities Framework.

* Expanding the number and frequency of participation of U.S. wildlife investigators and special agents in Organized
Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces (OCDETF).

* Increasing the number of U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service special agents and investigators, which have flatlined
since the 1970s even as the value of wildlife trafficking has significantly increased.

* Designating wildlife trafficking as a predicate offense for wiretap authorization.

Basic overview and core issues

Synthetic opioids are the source of the deadliest and unabating U.S. drug epidemic ever. Since 1999, drug
overdoses have killed over I million Americans, n1 a lethality rate that has increased significantly since 2012 when
synthetic opioids from China began supplying the U.S. demand for illicit opioids. In 2021, the number of fatalities
was 106,699; n2 in 2022, it is estimated to have been 107,477. n3 Most of the deaths were due to fentanyl,
consumed on its own or mixed into fake prescription pills, heroin, and increasingly, methamphetamine and cocaine.

The structural characteristics of synthetic drugs, such as fentanyl, including the ease of developing similar, but not
scheduled, synthetic drugs and their new precursors--increasingly a wide array of dual-use chemicals--pose
immense structural obstacles to controlling their supply.

U.S. domestic prevention, evidence-based treatment, harm reduction, and law enforcement measures are
fundamental and indispensable to countering the devastating fentanyl crisis.

However, given the synthetic opioid epidemic's extent and lethality in North America and its likely eventual spread
to other parts of the world, even supply control measures with partial and limited effectiveness can save lives and
thus need to be designed as smartly and robustly as possible.

China and Mexico are key actors whose collaboration is necessary for controlling supply. Yet, unfortunately, the
United States has found establishing counternarcotics cooperation with both countries deeply challenging. In fact, in
recent years, cooperation with both countries has been deeply inadequate as both China and Mexico hollowed out
antidrug collaboration with the United States.

China ended cooperation altogether because it instrumentalizes international law enforcement assistance and
subordinates it to its geostrategic relationships. A recent U.S. diplomatic breakthrough with China provides an
important promise of strengthened cooperation, the robustness of which is to be seen in 2024 and beyond.

Mexico eviscerated cooperation to a bare minimum because President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador's
administration has been unwilling and uninterested in mounting any serious law enforcement policy toward Mexican
criminal groups and has stayed away from substantially confronting them.

Mexico continues to calculate that it can get away with only sporadic, minimal, and inadequate counternarcotics
collaboration, and unresponsiveness to key U.S. interests as long as it leverages its ability to hamper or permit the

                                                                                            Page 8 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

flow of undocumented migrants to the U.S.-Mexico border and as long as it provides other migration services to the
United States, such as hosting migrants awaiting U.S. asylum hearings.

Until 2019, China was the principal source of finished fentanyl for the U.S. illegal market. Unscrupulous Chinese
brokers, acting in violation of U.S. laws, shipped fentanyl to dealers in the United States, often through postal and
other courier services. In May 2019, after years of intense U.S. diplomacy, China placed the entire fentanyl class of
synthetic opioids on a regulatory schedule. n4 China had to pass new laws to be able to do so. n5 China also
adopted stricter mail monitoring procedures. As a result, instead of shipping finished fentanyl to the United States,
Chinese brokers switched to shipping precursor chemicals to criminal groups in Mexico for the synthesis of fentanyl
there. Some of these precursor chemicals have been scheduled, but others remain unscheduled, in part because
they have widespread use in the legal manufacturing of chemical products and pharmaceutical goods.

Nonetheless, even when Chinese brokers sell nonscheduled chemicals to Mexican criminal groups, they often
supply these precursors and pre-precursors with the explicit knowledge that the drugs will be synthesized into
fentanyl and distributed in the illegal market. Chinese sellers sometimes accompany the chemicals with recipes of
how to synthesize illegal drugs like fentanyl from the precursors they provide. They purposefully cater to drug
trafficking groups in their directed Spanish advertisements that often bundle together uncontrolled fentanyl
precursors, common cocaine adulterants, and unscheduled methamphetamine precursors. Some of their ads even
highlight their capacities to "clear customs in Mexico." n6 In other cases, Chinese companies operating online
without Chinese internet signatures advertise their connections to international drug traffickers, such as in India, to
appeal to illegal buyers in Mexico. n7

U.S.-China counternarcotics cooperation

After more than two years of China purposefully denying counternarcotics cooperation to the United States and
failing to mount adequate internal enforcement, Beijing agreed to restart cooperation in November 2023. Its
principal motivation was to stabilize the U.S.-China relationship, but U.S. diplomacy and actions also played an
important role in bringing China back to cooperation.

The diplomatic breakthrough was announced at the November 2023 meeting between President Joe Biden and
President Xi Jinping. n8 As part of the renewed cooperation, a joint U.S.-China counternarcotics working group was
recreated.

To demonstrate its seriousness, China's National Narcotics Control Commission sent out notices to Chinese
pharmaceutical companies across the country's provinces that it was now monitoring and enforcing precursor
export controls. n9 Like in 2019 and 2020, China also took down some Chinese websites that were selling
precursor chemicals to international criminal groups.

In return, Washington removed sanctions from the Institute of Forensic Science in China, which the United States
had designated because of the institute's complicity in human rights abuses in Xinjiang. n10 China has long sought
the removal of those sanctions.

In January 2024, the resurrected U.S.-China counternarcotics commission held its first meeting. High-level Chinese
officials promised ambitious outcomes, even as non-action hedging did not completely disappear. n11

U.S. officials have told me that China has started acting on U.S.-provided intelligence about Chinese drug networks.
Compared to the many years when the commission's previous iterations essentially amounted to platforms for
mutual recrimination, at least some temporary progress appears to have been made.

China also agreed to expand its multilateral engagement on synthetic drug control, such as once again reporting
drug data to the United Nations anti-drug agencies.

For the first time, China was willing to include several measures on which it had previously resisted cooperation. In
one, China committed itself to enforcement cooperation on pill press exports, a vital element of the illegal drug trade

                                                                                            Page 9 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

enabling the production of lethal, fake pills. China had long shunned regulatory controls on pill presses to maximize
its economic interests.

China also committed itself to AML cooperation, another element on which China had long denied collaboration with
the United States. Previously, U.S. officials were frustrated by the lack of China's cooperation with U.S.
investigations into the role of Chinese networks laundering money for Mexican cartels. Overall, U.S. law
enforcement agencies have had little visibility into China's banking sector and China's application of its AML
controls. This time, representatives from Chinese banks, including the Bank of China, attended some of the U.S.-
China counternarcotics side meetings in Beijing in January 2024.

Strengthening AML cooperation is always very useful, since beyond disrupting financial flows to criminal actors,
AML investigations generate powerful intelligence on criminal networks. In the case of fentanyl and China, such
collaboration is all the more important since Chinese money launderers have become some of the world's leading
ones. Their collaboration with Mexican cartels is so efficient that they have been displacing the Black Peso Market.
n12 Chinese money laundering networks are also facilitating organized criminal groups' financial transactions in
Europe. n13

Chinese money laundering networks utilize a wide variety of money laundering tools and constantly innovate their
methods. Crucially, they often manage to bypass the U.S. and Mexican formal banking systems, thus evading
established anti-money laundering measures. They simplify one of the biggest challenges for the cartels: moving
large amounts of bulk money subject to law enforcement detection.

Chinese money laundering methods frequently avoid international wire transfers. Instead, they interface with the
formal banking systems only within a country--China, Mexico, or the United States, and sometimes only within
China. As described in Drazen Jorgic's Reuters special report, n14 through a system of mirror transactions across
several countries, Chinese money launderers deposit equivalent amounts of money across the money laundering
chain. They interact with criminal actors, such as Mexican cartels, through encrypted platforms, burner phones, and
codes. U.S. investigations and court cases reveal that the Bank of China has been among the Chinese financial
firms utilized by Chinese operators to launder money for Mexican cartels. n15

Laundering through casinos is analogous to these informal money transfers: Bulk cash is brought to a casino in
Vancouver, for example, where the cartel-linked individual loses it while his money laundering associate in Macau
wins and pays the Chinese precursor smuggling networks. n16 In recent years, such as between 2021 and 2023,
China clamped down on money laundering and gambling in Macau and encouraged countries in Southeast Asia
and the Pacific, such as Australia, to cooperate with its effort to repatriate money to China. n17

Other money laundering and value transfers between Mexican and Chinese criminal networks include trade-based
laundering, a form of money laundering extremely challenging for law enforcement to counter. An example of trade-
based laundering includes Chinese launderers for CJNG buying shoes in China and reselling them in Mexico to
give the cartel the necessary cash. n18 In the United States, Chinese money launderers have recently begun using
counterfeit Chinese passports to open burner bank accounts. They swap cash for cashier's checks, with which they
purchase iPhones and other luxury goods sought in China. The resale of these goods in China generates further
profits for the money laundering networks. n19

Just like in Australia, a primary location of Chinese money laundering, Chinese money laundering networks in the
United States are also moving into real estate, in addition to utilizing cryptocurrencies. n20

Other pernicious forms of money laundering and value transfer utilize Mexican wildlife and plant products, such as
marine and terrestrial animals and timber. Beyond facilitating crime, they pose massive threats to Mexican
biodiversity and risk spreading catastrophic zoonotic epidemics and pandemics, including to the United States.

Mexican cartels are increasingly sourcing an expanding array of protected and unprotected species in Mexico
coveted in China--for Traditional Chinese Medicine, aphrodisiacs, other forms of consumption, or as a tool of
speculation--to pay for fentanyl and methamphetamine precursor chemicals. Such products include turtles,

                                                                                           Page 10 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

tortoises, crocodilians and other reptiles, jellyfish, abalone, sea cucumber, and other seafood, parrots, and jaguars
as well as various hardwoods. n21 The swim bladder of the endemic and protected Mexican totoaba fish, which is
highly prized in Chinese markets, is a notorious example. n22 Instead of paying in cash, Mexican cartels pay
Chinese precursor brokers in these commodities.

The amount of value generated by such wildlife commodity payments, likely in the tens of millions of dollars, may
not cover all of the precursor payment totals and is unlikely to displace other methods of money laundering and
value transfer. But the potency-per-weight ratio of synthetic opioids makes their precursors very cheap--their total
value likely also amounts to only tens of millions of dollars. n23 Thus, precursor chemicals for fentanyl and other
synthetic opioids are uniquely suited to be paid by wildlife products, and this method of payment generates highly
dangerous threats to public health and biodiversity.

Moving bulk cash across the U.S.-Mexico border is an increasingly dated method. n24

Why China restarted counternarcotics cooperation

Two factors brought about China's collaboration turnaround:

1.Chinese geostrategic calculations.

2.Adroit and appropriately tough U.S. diplomacy.

In the last several years, U.S.-China relations deteriorated to a level of tensions unseen in decades across a wide
range of issues--including military alliances and power projection in the Asia-Pacific, China's facilitation of Russia's
egregious war against Ukraine, Chinese spying of sensitive technologies, and Taiwan. n25 With China's economic
growth slowed since COVID-19, the intensified competition has put further strains on China. n26 Both countries
came to desire a more stable rivalry and looked for a way to put a floor underneath their relationship's freefall.
Resurrecting bilateral counternarcotics enforcement and military-to-military exchanges and increasing cooperation
on climate change mitigation and artificial intelligence were all opportunities to do so. n27

Moreover, U.S. diplomacy effectively raised the reputational and other costs for China and Chinese actors. In July
2023, the United States organized and launched a new Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats. n28
Although China prides itself on being a tough drug cop and tends to be very active in global counternarcotics
diplomacy, it abstained from joining while nearly 100 countries signed up. n29

China's counternarcotics reputation took another hit in September 2023 when the United States placed Beijing on
its annual list of major drug-producing or transit countries (aka the Majors List). n30 While some countries have
become indifferent to the listing, calculating they can escape sanctions through U.S. national security interest
exceptions, these reputational costs do matter to China.

Crucially, in 2023, the U.S. Department of Justice issued a set of innovative and powerful indictments against
Chinese networks selling nonscheduled precursors to Mexican cartels, and the Department of Treasury sanctioned
various Chinese firms. n31 The indictments centered on prohibitions of material support to organized crime groups
and revealed Chinese suppliers are knowingly selling to Mexican cartels and providing them with formulas and kits
on how best to process the nonscheduled chemicals into fentanyl. n32 China has long excused its inaction against
these flows by insisting it cannot act against nonscheduled chemicals, such as the dual-use precursors from which
much of fentanyl is produced today.

As an important pressure tool, the United States denied visas to various Chinese officials and business executives,
while the U.S. Congress held multiple hearings on China's role in the U.S. drug epidemic and a U.S. Senate
delegation to China emphasized the issue. n33

Monitoring U.S.-China collaboration

                                                                                           Page 11 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

It is unlikely that China will end its approach of subordinating its anti-drug and anti-crime cooperation to its strategic
calculus. The United States has long hoped to get China to delink anti-crime cooperation from the overall state of
the bilateral relationship and establish strong law enforcement cooperation separate from geopolitics.

In fact, China sees counternarcotics and more broadly international law enforcement cooperation as strategic tools
that it can leverage to achieve other objectives. As Beijing's hopes for improvements in U.S.-China relations
declined in 2021, so too did China's willingness to coordinate with Washington on counternarcotics objectives.
Thus, even though China's current goal is to reduce tensions, China's drug cooperation is vulnerable to new crises
in the bilateral relationship.

Moreover, Beijing rarely acts against the top echelons of large and powerful Chinese criminal syndicates unless
they specifically contradict a narrow set of Chinese government interests. Chinese criminal groups cultivate political
capital with Chinese authorities and government officials abroad by also promoting China's political, strategic, and
economic interests.

Key indicators of China's seriousness about counternarcotics collaboration include:

* China's responsiveness to U.S. intelligence provision.

* Reciprocal sharing of intelligence.

* Arrests and prosecutions in China.

* The extent and consistency of China's monitoring and regulating of Chinese pharmaceutical and chemical
industries.

* China's willingness to adopt KYC laws.

Yet China already warns that it is unlikely to deliver cooperation on several of these elements. For example, China
cautions that it will not be able to mount many arrests and prosecutions.

Furthermore, China still insists that it cannot prosecute nonscheduled substances, claiming the lack of material
support laws pertaining to organized crime. n34 If these laws are genuinely lacking in China, the world's most
extensive police and surveillance state, it should either strengthen the laws or find other mechanisms in its
draconian drug laws, such as conspiracy and fraud charges, to prosecute Chinese violators. n35

Beyond regular, not just one-off, messaging that China is now serious about controlling drug exports and the above-
cited prosecutions, China's willingness to promote the adoption of KYC laws and practices across these industries
is an important measure and goal. Designed to protect institutions against fraud, participation in organized crime,
corruption, money laundering, and terrorist financing by mandating that companies and individuals perform due
diligence on their customers and do not engage in business with those that fall into the above categories, KYC laws
are now commonplace around the world. Yet China has been reluctant to adopt such policies, calculating that such
measures are too economically costly. n36

Conversely, the United States should not judge the extent of China's cooperation by the number of drug-induced
deaths the United States. Even if China were to robustly cooperate, deaths may not dip: In illicit drug markets, there
are always lags of months or years between effective supply actions and retail changes. Besides, Mexican cartels
have stockpiles of precursors, and they can source them from other sources, such as India or South Africa. n37

Moreover, if drugs like xylazine (which is not responsive to the overdose medication naloxone) and other synthetic
opioids like nitazenes start spreading beyond the East Coast (and escalate in Europe), overdose deaths will spike
beyond the currently high levels. n38

U.S.-Mexico counternarcotics cooperation

                                                                                           Page 12 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

U.S.-Mexico counternarcotics cooperation also remains challenging, and over the past five years has become
deeply inadequate. Anti-drug collaboration has weakened even though Mexico is an important neighbor and
economic partner of the United States and Mexican and U.S. societies are interconnected through familial ties. The
Mexican government has hollowed out the cooperation even though Mexican cartels are key vectors of fentanyl
production and trafficking and of violence in Mexico and Latin America. At the core of the problem lies the
disinterest of the Lopez Obrador administration in confronting Mexican criminals with effective law enforcement.
U.S. preoccupation with migration flows and U.S. reliance on the Mexican government to stop these flows give the
Mexican government leverage to deflect U.S. demands for stronger law enforcement actions against fentanyl and
against the cartels.

From the start of his administration, Lopez Obrador sought to withdraw from the Merida Initiative--the U.S.-Mexico
security collaboration framework signed during the Felipe Calderon administration. Instead, he sought to redefine
the collaboration extremely narrowly: U.S. assistance to Mexico was intended to reduce demand for drugs in
Mexico, while the United States focused on stopping the flow of drug proceeds and weapons to Mexico and
reducing drug demand at home. Previous Mexican governments also sought to direct U.S. law enforcement's focus
to those two types of illicit flows but were also willing to collaborate inside Mexico. The U.S.-Mexico-Canada
Trilateral Fentanyl Committee has elevated countering firearms trafficking. n39

After the United States arrested former Mexican Secretary of Defense Gen. Salvador Cienfuegos in October 2020
for conspiring with a vicious Mexican drug cartel, Lopez Obrador threatened to end all cooperation and expel all
U.S. law enforcement personnel from Mexico. n40 To avoid that outcome, the Trump administration handed
Cienfuegos over to Mexico where he was rapidly acquitted.

But despite this significant U.S. concession, Mexico's counternarcotics cooperation remained limited. Meanwhile,
U.S. law enforcement activities in Mexico were shackled and undermined by a December 2021 Mexican national
security law on foreign agents. n41 As stated by Matthew Donahue, a former high-level Drug Enforcement
Administration (DEA) official, since then and because of the continually immense level of corruption and cartel
infiltration in Mexican security agencies, Mexican law enforcement spends more time surveilling DEA agents than it
does cartel members. n42

With the threat of Mexico's unilateral withdrawal from the Merida Initiative escalating, the United States government
worked hard to negotiate a new security framework with Mexico--the U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial Framework for
Security, Public Health, and Safe Communities n43 in the fall of 2021. The United States emphasized the public
health and anti-money laundering elements of the agreement, as the Mexican government had sought. The
framework reiterates multiple dimensions of counternarcotics cooperation, including law enforcement.

After the United States launched the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats, Mexico expressed a
welcome interest in promoting public health tools for dealing with drug use. It has been cochairing the coalition's
working group on health issues. Yet the Mexican government's authority is undermined by Lopez Obrador's false
claims that no fentanyl is used in Mexico, even as fentanyl use is spreading beyond Mexico's northern states. n44
The Lopez Obrador administration has even actively hampered the accessibility of the overdose medication
naloxone in Mexico, suggesting a total ban on its use even as the medication is crucial for saving and managing
opioid use disorder. n45 Not even law enforcement officers sent to bust drug labs in Mexico, where they could be
exposed to lethal doses of fentanyl, are provided with naloxone. These actions by the Lopez Obrador administration
jeopardize the lives of Mexican people and the country's public health and weaken its credibility in international fora
on public health approaches to drugs.

Moreover, Lopez Obrador began falsely denying that fentanyl is produced in Mexico, and deceptive statements
were made at his behest by other high-level Mexican officials and agencies. n46 Presently, the Mexican president
insists that fentanyl is only pressed into fake pills in Mexico, which he does not appear to believe is of sufficient
concern. Blaming fentanyl use in the United States on U.S. moral and social decay, including American families not
hugging their children enough (the statement an apparent nod to his strategy of confronting Mexican criminals with
"hugs and not bullets"), the Mexican president has also denied that fentanyl is increasingly consumed in Mexico.

                                                                                           Page 13 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

n47 With such statements, Lopez Obrador is not just unwittingly (or knowingly) echoing China's rhetoric, but also
publicly dismissing two decades of a policy of shared responsibility for drug production, trafficking, and consumption
between United States and Mexico.

Thus, even after the announcement of the Bicentennial Framework, U.S.-Mexico law enforcement cooperation has
been limping at best. Aware of the U.S. focus on migration, the Mexican government takes the minimum actions
necessary to placate the United States regarding fentanyl. It concentrates its interdiction efforts at the border with
the United States, and especially on migration, but tends to take few actions against the cartels away from the
border.

DEA operations in Mexico remain hampered and limited by the Mexican government, undermining law
enforcement's capacity to incapacitate and deter Mexican criminal groups. Other U.S. law enforcement actors, such
as HIS, have been able to build back some cooperation with Mexican law enforcement actors. Some Mexican
government agencies are even sharing some intelligence with the United States.

Acting on U.S. intelligence, the Mexican government engages in occasional collaboration in high-value targeting of
key drug cartel leaders. In January 2023, acting on U.S. intelligence, Mexican authorities arrested one of the
leaders of the Sinaloa Cartel, Ovidio Guzman Lopez. In September 2023, they extradited him to the United States.
Given his crucial role in directing the Sinaloa Cartel's fentanyl operation, his capture and arrest were significant
developments. Extradition is important: In the United States, top cartel operatives and their political and government
sponsors cannot count on escaping from prison and a high rate of prosecution failure. And extradition and
subsequent interrogations in the United States allow for the development of better tactical and strategic intelligence
by law enforcement. In November, the Mexican government arrested Nestor Isidro Perez Salas ("El Nini"), the
notorious head of security for the Chapitos wing of the Sinaloa Cartel.

Demonstrating resolve and priority-targeting focus on criminal groups is important. Appropriately, the Biden
administration has elevated fentanyl and synthetic opioids to a top-level threat. However, the sporadic targeting of
the odd member of the criminal groups' top echelons, if not accompanied by a systematic effort to disrupt the
groups' middle operational layer and the entire scope of their operations, is insufficient. At the national level, the
Mexican government rarely interferes with criminal groups' operations in any systematic way.

At the United States' insistence, and as a result of brave journalistic investigative work, the Mexican government did
shut down some of the dangerous and criminal-group-linked pharmacies selling fentanyl- and methamphetamine-
laced drugs and other dangerous controlled or prescription substances without prescription, such as antibiotics.
These pharmacies sprung up in Mexico's international tourist areas since the COVID-19 outbreak. They are highly
dangerous vectors of spreading substance-use disorder and potentially overdose death.

Proliferating in places such as the Mayan Riviera and Los Cabos over the past three years, these pharmacies are
physical buildings that appear like other Mexican pharmacies. Yet they openly advertise drugs such as antibiotics,
anabolic steroids, and prescription opiates and sell them illegally without a prescription. Investigative work by The
Los Angeles Times and separately by Vice discovered that drugs sold as Percocet, for example, also contained
fentanyl and methamphetamine. n48 Other drugs sold without prescription, such as oxycodone, Xanax, and
Adderall, were often fentanyl-laced fakes. During my June 2023 fieldwork in Mexico, shop assistants in these
pharmacies claimed they could mail any of these drugs to the United States without a prescription.

Amid an already terrible drug epidemic, these pharmacies greatly magnify the threats to public health. U.S. citizens
have long been accustomed to buying medications that are too expensive in the United States from Mexico.
Unwittingly, intending to buy other medication, they may end up buying drugs causing lethal overdose or addiction.
The legitimate veneer of these pharmacies also exposes a much wider set of potential customers to fentanyl and
other dangerous drugs, ranging from teenagers to the elderly. Because the pharmacies aggressively target
international tourists in major vacation resort areas, they also export the fentanyl epidemic to other regions of the
world, such as Western Europe. Many of these pharmacies are likely linked to the Sinaloa Cartel and CJNG.

                                                                                           Page 14 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

Further funding the Mexican cartels and other drug trafficking networks, the geographic spread of fentanyl use
would augment the global public health disaster.

The adulteration of fake medications with fentanyl and methamphetamine is not the sole problem. The unauthorized
sale of antibiotics without prescription at these pharmacies also poses other massive global public health,
economic, and security harms, such as the intensified emergence of drug-resistant bacteria.

Shutting down these unscrupulous pharmacies to minimize the criminals' market access and to reduce exposure to
customers is imperative. Simply seizing illicit pills while letting the pharmacies operate is inadequate. Shutdowns
and strong prosecutorial actions are necessary against suppliers.

Yet while these pharmacies operate in violation of Mexican laws, in plain sight, and visibly saturate major tourist
areas, it took a long time for Mexican regulatory authorities, such as Mexico's Federal Commission for Protection
Against Sanitary Risks (COFEPRIS), to mount action. In June 2023, COFEPRIS finally raided three such
pharmacies in Los Cabos, arresting four operators and seizing some 25,000 pills. n49 In August, Mexican officials
seized illegal drugs from and shut down 23 pharmacies on the Mayan Riveria. n50 And in December, Mexican
authorities raided and shut down 31 pharmacies in Ensenada, Baja California. n51

These are important actions to disrupt overdose deaths and addiction. They cannot remain one-off operations and
need to be consistently mounted by the Mexican government. It is also crucial not simply to shut the pharmacies
down but to mount investigations into their criminal sponsors and arrest and dismantle the networks behind them.
Effective prosecution of their operators is essential. If the networks are left standing, they will simply open up new
pharmacies selling dangerous drugs.

Similarly, lab busting alone is inadequate. Fentanyl and meth labs are easy to rebuild. While they cannot be left
operating outside of sting operations and controlled delivery investigations, it is essential to use lab raids to gather
intelligence for criminal network mapping and subsequent arrests, prosecutions, and network dismantling. Such
investigations and prosecutions have rarely been mounted in Mexico during the Lopez Obrador administration.

Worse, crucial investigations by Reuters have repeatedly revealed that the Mexican government systematically
manipulates data regarding drug lab busts and grossly exaggerates the numbers of labs taken down. n52

The identification of various Mexican pharmacies' criminal operations, the exposure of the Mexican government's
data manipulation to exaggerate its interdiction efforts, and a myriad of other key revelations about the scope of
criminal groups' takeover in Mexico and their infiltration into Mexican institutions and politics have come as a result
of courageous investigative work by Mexican and international journalists and researchers who often face
substantial risks to their lives and the lives of their families. Mexico is one of the highest-risk countries for
journalists, with many journalists killed and few perpetrators held accountable. n53 One study by the free speech
group "Article 19" found that in 2022, a Mexican journalist was attacked every 13 hours. n54 The attacks' frequency
appears to have risen as Mexico enters its elections season. Even journalists placed under the Mexican
government's official protection continue to suffer attacks. n55 Yet throughout his presidency, Lopez Obrador has
attacked media outlets and journalists for doing their crucial work.

In a recent and particularly troubling demonstration of his effort to suppress the freedom of media, Lopez Obrador
exposed the photo, phone number, and personal information of the New York Times bureau chief in Mexico, who
subsequently suffered serious threats. n56 The U.S. Congress and executive branch must strongly condemn such
actions by the Mexican government, demand they will not be repeated, and take actions to ensure this.

Some collaboration has persisted at the sub-federal level in Mexico also. Yet just like with journalists, all too
frequently, the Mexican government does not provide support to honest and committed Mexican law enforcement
and justice officials who want to collaborate with the United States and act against Mexican criminal groups'
increasing ambition to dominate ever larger aspects of Mexican life, politics, and economics. Such honest Mexican
officials as well as brave civil society members, environmental activists, and business community leaders who stand

                                                                                           Page 15 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

up to the criminal groups against all odds and at severe risk to their lives and the lives of their families often find no
protection from the Mexican government.

The lack of support for and outright undermining of well-motivated and committed Mexican government officials,
n57 the lack of protection for those who stand up to criminal groups, and attacks on media are part and parcel of
Lopez Obrador's systematic effort to weaken checks and balances in Mexico and the country's institutions and
systems of transparency and accountability.

The growing power of Mexican criminal groups amid inadequate law enforcement

The substantial weakening of Mexico's willingness to meaningfully collaborate with the United States' anti-drug and
anti-crime efforts is not simply a matter of Lopez Obrador's dislike of the intensity of cooperation achieved during
the Calderon administration. It also crucially reflects his unwillingness to strongly confront criminal networks in
Mexico.

At the beginning of his administration, Lopez Obrador announced a strategy of "hugs, not bullets" toward criminal
groups. The strategy sought to emphasize socio-economic programs to deal with crime and address the causes
that propel young people to join criminal groups. Poorly designed and pervaded by corruption even in the socio-
economic aspects, the strategy never articulated any security or law enforcement policy toward criminal groups.
Over time, it became obvious that Lopez Obrador simply did not want to confront the criminal groups with any kind
of force.

At the beginning of his administration, Lopez Obrador abolished the Federal Police--because of its infiltration by
Mexican criminal groups, a systematic and pervasive problem for all of Mexico's law enforcement forces for
decades. (Since the 1980s, the many iterations of law enforcement reforms have failed to expunge such infiltration
and corruption across Mexican agencies.) Early efforts to reform Mexico's municipal police forces, highly vulnerable
to criminal intimidation and infiltration and frequently lacking capacities, rapidly withered.

Lopez Obrador instead created the National Guard, staffed mostly by Mexican soldiers and police officers from the
former Federal Police and now under the command of the Mexican military. However, the National Guard is not and
could never be an adequate replacement for the Federal Police. The Federal Police, with all its faults, had the
greatest investigative capacities and mandates, while the National Guard has no investigative mandates and very
little capacity. It can only act against crime in flagrancia or as a deterrent force by patrolling the streets, a highly
ineffective strategy.

To the extent that the Mexican military or National Guard are deployed to a particularly violent area of Mexico, they
mostly only patrol narrow zones, sometimes even without responding to crime battles raging nearby. Some of these
battles now approximate insurgent battlefields as cartels such as CJNG increasingly deploy weaponized drones
and land mines to depopulate areas and keep law enforcement forces away. n58

Visible violence, such as gun battles and sieges of government offices, have spread to other parts of Mexico,
dramatically escalating in places like Guerrero and Chiapas. n59 Hidden, but no less Manjarres, "What Is Behind
the     Criminal     Conflict  Raging     in    Chiapas,      Mexico?,"   InSightCrime,   February      8,   2024,
https://insightcrime.org/news/behind-criminal-conflict-raging-chiapas-mexico/. dangerous, violence--in the form of
disappearances and intimidation of civil society activists, business community members, and government officials--
has escalated across the country. n60

The current election campaign is on track to become Mexico's most violent ever. n61 Criminal groups no longer
simply seek to corrupt and intimidate candidates once they are elected. Through coercion, including assassinations,
and corruption, they increasingly seek to determine who can run in the first place. They deploy bribery, intimidation,
and violence to shape elections at all levels of the Mexican government.

                                                                                           Page 16 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

Yet they can get away with that violence. Since 2017 more than 30,000 Mexicans have been killed per year,
including in 2023, while more than 112,000 remain disappeared. n62 The effective prosecution rate for homicides in
Mexico continues to hover at an abysmally low 2 percent and remains in single digits for other serious crimes. n63

Investigative authorities in Mexico are predominantly under the Office of the Attorney General (Fiscalia General de
la Republica, FGR), the Federal Ministerial Police, and state prosecutorial offices. But as with other law
enforcement institutions in Mexico, the FGR's capacities are limited, overwhelmed by the level of crime in Mexico,
and suffer from criminal infiltration, corruption, and political interference despite decades-long efforts at reform.

Essentially, the Mexican president has hoped that if he does not interfere with Mexico's criminal groups, they will
eventually redivide Mexico's economies and territories among themselves, and violence will subside. That policy
has been disastrous for many reasons: Most importantly, it further saps the already-weak rule of law in Mexico,
increases impunity, and subjects Mexican people, institutions, and legal economies to Mexican criminal groups'
tyranny. But it is also problematic because Mexico's out-of-control criminal market, plagued by a bipolar and
increasingly internationalized war between the Sinaloa Cartel and CJNG, has little chance to effectuate such
stabilization.

Yet this do-little policy has augmented the impunity that criminal groups enjoy in Mexico and motivated them to
resort to more and more brazen violence and acquire progressively greater power. Within Mexico, Mexican criminal
groups often control extensive territories where the government has only limited influence and sporadic access and
some of which have become outright no-go zones for government officials. In other areas, they dictate governance
terms to government officials.

Having expanded far beyond illegal commodities, Mexican criminal groups are also increasingly taking over legal
economies and public services such as water distribution in various parts of Mexico. The cartels are pressuring,
penetrating, and taking over mining, logging, fisheries, mezcal and tequila production, alcohol and cigarette
distribution and other retail, and agriculture--and not just avocadoes.

This takeover of legal economies does not only augment the cartels' money laundering tools and increase their
revenues. It is also a means of political control.

Such legal economy takeovers go far beyond extortion--which is enormously widespread as many businesses in
Mexico do not have the capacity to shield themselves from extortion by Mexican criminal groups. Mexican criminal
groups, especially the Sinaloa Cartel, often seek to monopolize the entire vertical supply chain. Fisheries provide a
prime example. n64 Beyond merely demanding a part of the profits from fishers as extortion, the criminal groups
dictate to legal and illegal fishers how much the fishers can fish, insisting that the fishers sell the harvest only to the
criminal groups, and that restaurants, including those catering to international tourists, buy fish only from the
criminal groups. Mexican organized criminal groups set the prices at which fishers can be compensated and
restaurants paid for the cartels' marine products. The criminal groups also force processing plants to process the
fish they bring in and issue it with fake certificates of legal provenance for export into the United States and China.
And they charge extortion fees to seafood exporters. They also force fishers to smuggle drugs. n65

Mexican criminal groups' increasing territorial and economic power, brazen violence, takeover of legal economies in
Mexico, and the impunity they enjoy raise significant questions about near-shoring to Mexico as a derisking strategy
for China. Under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and previously the North American Free
Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Mexico became a crucial trading and economic partner of the United States. The two
countries and Canada's economies, businesses, and people have greatly benefited from North America's economic
integration. Many more integration benefits can yet be realized.

Yet will further economic integration be severely undermined by the lack of rule of law in Mexico? What risks are
there in intensifying economic jointness if an economy is increasingly penetrated by criminal actors? What kind of
supply-chain, legal, and other liabilities and risks are there for U.S. companies operating in Mexico or with Mexican
counterparts amid a collapsing rule of law? Already, Mexican criminal groups regularly shut down major highways
and even critical arteries and border crossing to the United States. n66 Trucks with goods are increasingly hijacked

                                                                                           Page 17 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

on Mexican highways. n67 Yet many Mexican companies cannot afford to pay for private security companies to
protect their cargo and facilities.

Significantly improving rule of law in Mexico is essential for increasing economic integration and near-shoring.

Mexican criminal groups are also expanding into fishing outside of Mexico. n68 There have long been suspicions
about the extent to which Latin American fishing fleets are also engaged in the smuggling of drugs such as cocaine
into the United States. n69 The penetration of legal fisheries by Mexican cartels further facilitates their drug
smuggling enterprise.

Similarly, massive Chinese fishing fleets have long engaged in illegal fishing, sometimes devastating marine
resources in other countries' exclusive economic zones. However, there are good reasons to be concerned about
the possibility of the growing involvement of Chinese fishing ships in drug trafficking, compounding the extensive
problem of Chinese cargo vessels carrying contraband such as drugs and their precursors as well as wildlife. n70
Moreover, such Chinese fishing flotillas or individual vessels operating around the Americas and elsewhere in the
world may carry spy equipment collection intelligence for China.

Russian intelligence operatives' high and increasing presence in Mexico is also concerning. n71 Beyond spying on
the United States, they could establish relations with Mexican criminal groups and seek to leverage them for actions
against the United States in exchange for a safe haven in Russia.

Would the Mexican cartels risk further provoking the ire of U.S. law enforcement? CJNG's hallmark has all along
been its lack of restraint; its signature brand is to be more brazen, audacious and violent than its rivals. n72 The
older leadership of the Sinaloa Cartel has been calibrated in its violence and provocation of governments and
sensitive to redlines. n73 But not so the younger leaders of the Sinaloa Cartel. At least until recently, this younger
generation, the Chapitos, did not exhibit such restraints. While seeking to "create streets of junkies" in the United
States, they showed stunning indifference to the ire of U.S. law enforcement by fueling the epidemic of death in the
United States, as U.S. Department of Justice indictments of Ovidio Guzman Lopez and other Chapitos n74

Nonetheless, even in Mexico, where the Lopez Obrador administration has hobbled joint law enforcement
operations, the effectiveness and deterrence capacities of U.S. law enforcement are far greater than those of the
Mexican government. For example, the apparent decision several months ago by the Chapitos to prohibit fentanyl
production in their home state of Sinaloa n75 and relocate it elsewhere in Mexico may be a sign they are
responding to U.S. law enforcement pressure.

Yet overall, Mexican criminal groups govern an expanding scope of territories, economies, institutions, and people
in Mexico.

These profoundly pernicious developments have taken place even as public policy, not just public safety, in Mexico
has become increasingly militarized. Lopez Obrador has relied on the Mexican military for the execution and
implementation of a wide panoply of governance roles. He has tasked the Mexican military with the management of
ports and airports, the construction of critical infrastructure, and even of luxury apartments. n76 The legislative
reforms that Lopez Obrador pushed through the Mexican Congress have accorded the revenues from these many
economic projects to the Mexican military often in perpetuity. The Mexican economy is becoming militarized.

Yet these increased economic revenues have not augmented the Mexican military's effectiveness and resolve to
take on the cartels. They may even undermine them, distracting attention from public safety responsibilities. They
also weaken civilian oversight of the Mexican military as the armed forces are no longer solely dependent on
budget allocations by the Mexican government.

Conclusions, Policy Implications, and Recommendations

As vast numbers of Americans are dying from fentanyl overdose and Chinese and Mexican criminal groups expand
their operations around the world and into a vast array of illegal and legal economies, the United States must

                                                                                           Page 18 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

strengthen access to evidence-based treatment and harm reduction measures. But supply-side efforts also remain
imperative.

Below I offer some policy implications and recommendations on how the United States can attempt to reinforce and
anchor China's promise of cooperation and induce Mexico to better cooperate with counternarcotics and law
enforcement objectives. I also provide suggestions for what law enforcement and policy measures the United
States can and should take on its own.

Reinforcing U.S.-China cooperation

To motivate China's responsiveness to U.S. intelligence provision and reciprocal sharing, the U.S. Congress could
request regular, if closed-door, reports on these aspects of cooperation.

The U.S. Congress should consider the number of arrests and extent of prosecutions by the Chinese government of
Chinese criminal actors and pharmaceutical and chemical companies and brokers involved in fentanyl and
precursor trafficking as an important indicator of the robustness of cooperation. The extent and consistency of
China's monitoring and regulating of Chinese pharmaceutical and chemical industries overall and the removal of
websites selling synthetic drugs to criminal actors are other important signs.

The United States should continue to strongly encourage China to adopt and enforce KYC laws and punish
violators. If China continues to reject the promotion of KYC laws, the United States and its global coalition partners
should raise the costs of China's KYC noncompliance by denying Chinese suppliers and industries market access,
undoubtedly an expensive policy but one that recognizes the fentanyl epidemic's immense and multifaceted costs.

Beyond KYC laws, the United States could encourage the Chinese government and Chinese pharmaceutical and
chemical sectors to adopt the full array of global control standards, including the development of better training,
certification, and inspection.

Globally, the United States should remain deeply engaged in discussions on how to develop enhanced special
surveillance lists and monitoring and enforcement mechanisms for dual-use chemicals, as those that are not
scheduled do not have to be declared in exports.

Reinforcing China's willingness to engage bilaterally and multilaterally in AML cooperation remains important.
Bilaterally and multilaterally, China should be incentivized to adopt more robust anti-money laundering standards in
its banking and financial systems and trading practices and apply them systemically in counternarcotics and anti-
crime efforts, not merely selectively regarding capital flight from China.

Expanding U.S. and multilateral engagement with China about mounting appropriate controls on tranquilizers such
as xylazine and emerging synthetic opioids such as nitazenes, currently poorly regulated and monitored in China, is
crucial. And China's responsiveness should be another measure of cooperation.

Certainly, these measures should strongly inform whether and when China will be removed from the Majors List.

The United States should not reduce its criticism of China's unofficial police stations abroad. n77 Although China
labels them a legitimate law enforcement activity, the United States and other countries appropriately consider them
an illegal tool for monitoring and repressing the Chinese diaspora. n78

In anticipation of possible hitches and backsliding in China's cooperation, the United States should strengthen
multilateral efforts within the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats. It should concentrate on
mobilizing a subgroup of countries in Southeast Asia and the Pacific region and include methamphetamine in the
portfolio of actions. Many countries there are experiencing large increases in methamphetamine use (and its
associated high morbidity effects) and are frustrated with China as a source of meth pre-precursors and Chinese
drug networks as the meth trafficking vectors. n79 Many of the practices and policies suggested above as key
measures of the quality of China's cooperation double up for meth trafficking controls. China is very focused on not

                                                                                           Page 19 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

losing influence in Southeast Asia and the Pacific region and a joint initiative between the United States and the
region on drugs will help motivate China to engage in responsive and responsible law enforcement cooperation.

Such a line of effort within the Global Coalition and beyond would help the United States and its partners to send
coordinated messages to push Beijing in a preferred direction on law enforcement efforts. If China's promised
counternarcotics cooperation does not robustly materialize or weakens over time, once again raising the reputation
costs for China of its law enforcement inaction will be important, especially as China prides itself on being a global
counternarcotics leader.

Inducing cooperation from Mexico

U.S. counternarcotics and law enforcement bargaining with Mexico is gravely constrained by the U.S. reliance on
Mexico to stop migrant flows to the United States. If the United States implemented a comprehensive immigration
reform that provided legal work opportunities to those currently seeking protection and opportunities in the United
States through unauthorized migration, it would have far better leverage to induce meaningful and robust
counternarcotics and law enforcement cooperation from Mexico. The United States would thus be better able to
save U.S. lives. Nonetheless, even absent such reform, the United States can take impactful measures.

In its law enforcement engagement with the Mexican government, the United States should prioritize:

* Continuously shutting down Mexican pharmacies that sell fentanyl- and methamphetamine-adulterated drugs and
investigating, dismantling, and prosecuting the networks that operate them.

* Not merely busting laboratories and seizing drugs, but actually dismantling drug trafficking networks, particularly
their middle-operational layers that are hard to recreate and the removal of which significantly hampers the ability of
criminal groups to operate and smuggle contraband.

* Supporting Mexican prosecutorial actions against criminal actors.

The arrival of a new government in Mexico at the end of 2024 may provide opportunities for such strengthened
cooperation.

The United States should also continue to seek the restoration of joint U.S.-Mexico law enforcement operations
inside Mexico, such as the consistent presence of U.S. law enforcement officers during interdiction raids. It should
also continue to request that Mexico systematically shares seized drug samples with U.S. law enforcement
agencies. Such presence would help Mexico's credibility after revelations of how it manipulates law enforcement
action data.

The U.S. Congress and executive branch must strongly condemn actions by the Mexican government that threaten
the freedom of press and jeopardize the safety of journalists, especially when they are U.S. citizens. The U.S.
government should ensure that such actions by the Mexican government will not be repeated.

The arrival of a new government in Mexico at the end of 2024 may provide opportunities for such strengthened
cooperation.

In the continued absence of such cooperation, the United States has various policy tools to consider.

Some U.S. lawmakers have proposed designating Mexican criminal groups as Foreign Terrorist Organizations
(FTO). An FTO designation would enable intelligence gathering and the conduct of strikes by the U.S. military
against drug targets in Mexico, such as some fentanyl laboratories in Mexico or visible military formations of
Mexican criminal groups, principally CJNG.

However, such unilateral U.S. military actions in Mexico would severely jeopardize relations with our vital trading
partner and neighbor. Calls for U.S. military strikes against fentanyl-linked targets in Mexico have already been
condemned by Mexican government officials, politicians, and commentators.

                                                                                           Page 20 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

Meanwhile, the number of available targets in Mexico would be limited. Most Mexican criminal groups do not gather
in military-like visible formations. Many fentanyl laboratories already operate in buildings in populated
neighborhoods of towns and cities where strikes would not be possible due to risks to Mexican civilians. Moreover,
fentanyl laboratories would easily be recreated, as they already are.

Nor would the FTO designation add authorities to the economic sanctions and anti-money laundering and financial
intelligence tools that the already-in-place designation of Transnational Criminal Organization carries. The latter
designation also carries extensive prohibitions against material support.

Additionally, an FTO designation could limit U.S. foreign policy options and measures. Clauses against material
support for designated terrorist organizations have made it difficult for the United States to implement non-military
and non-law-enforcement policy measures in a wide range of countries, such as providing assistance for legal job
creation or reintegration support even for populations that had to endure the rule of brutal terrorist groups. The FTO
designation could also hamper the delivery of U.S. training, such as to local police forces or Mexican federal law
enforcement agencies, if guarantees could not be established that such counterparts had no infiltration by criminal
actors.

To be in compliance with material support laws, the United States and other entities must guarantee that none of
their financial or material assistance is leaking out, including through coerced extortion, to those designated as
FTOs. Yet such controls would be a significant challenge in Mexico where many people and businesses in legal
economies have to pay extortion fees to Mexican criminal groups. The attempted controls could undermine the
ability to trade with Mexico, as many U.S. businesses would not be able to determine whether their Mexican trading
or production partner was paying extortion fees to Mexican cartels, and thus guarantee that they were not indirectly
in violation of material support clauses.

Nonetheless, encouraging a far stronger rule of law in Mexico is crucial for sustaining and augmenting near-shoring
to Mexico.

However, the United States could resort to significantly intensified border inspections, even if they seriously slow
down the legal trade and cause substantial damage to Mexican goods, such as agricultural products. Even with the
significant improvement in vehicle and cargo inspection expected to be reaped from the scanning technologies the
Biden administration authorized for deployment at the U.S. ports of entry, a meaningful percentage of vehicles and
much cargo will still go unchecked.

Under optimal circumstances, U.S.-Mexico law enforcement cooperation would be robust enough to make legal
border crossings fast and efficient. Joint fentanyl and precursor busts and seizures could take place near the
production laboratories and at warehouses. The inspections of legal cargo heading to the United States could take
place close to the production and loading site in Mexico. Under the Merida Initiative, the Obama administration, in
fact, sought to develop with Mexico such systems of legal cargo inspection inside Mexico and away from the
border.

But if Mexico refuses to act as a reliable law enforcement partner to counter the greatest drug epidemic in North
America, which is also decimating lives in Mexico, the United States may have to focus its much-intensified
inspections at the border, despite the economic pains.

Furthermore, packages of leverage, including indictment portfolios and visa denials, should also be developed
against Mexican national security and law enforcement officials and politicians who sabotage the rule of law in
Mexico, assist Mexican criminal groups, and perniciously hamper law enforcement cooperation with the United
States. Calls to undertake such sanctions by Republican senators led by Senator Bill Hagerty of Tennessee should
be carefully and diligently explored. n80

Expanding and smartening U.S. measures against criminal actors

                                                                                           Page 21 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

Importantly, the United States has significant opportunities to rapidly strengthen and smarten up its own measures
against Mexican criminal actors participating in fentanyl and other contraband trafficking.

Appropriately, the Biden administration has sought to intensify and harmonize U.S. law enforcement actions against
fentanyl trafficking. In March 2023, for example, it launched Operation Blue Lotus to coordinate cooperation across
Customs and Border Patrol, Immigration and Customs, Homeland Security Investigations, and other federal, state,
tribal, and local law enforcement agencies. n81 Scaling up such efforts and better coordination are necessary.

But since Mexican drug cartels have diversified their activities into a wide array of illicit and licit commodities,
primarily focusing on drug seizures close to the source is no longer sufficient for effectively disrupting fentanyl
smuggling and criminal networks implicated in it.

Rather, countering all of Mexican criminal groups' economic activities is imperative. This includes countering
poaching and wildlife trafficking from Mexico and illegal logging and mining in places where the Mexican cartels
have reach, acting against illegal fishing off Mexico and around Latin America and elsewhere, and shutting down
wildlife trafficking networks that extend into China.

To effectively counter fentanyl-smuggling actors requires a whole-of-government approach--not simply on paper,
but truly in implementation against criminal networks, not merely fentanyl flows. A wide range of U.S. government
agencies should be authorized to support U.S. law enforcement against Mexican and Chinese criminal actors and
their political sponsors and the portfolio of their activities--from fentanyl trafficking to crimes against nature. These
include U.S. intelligence agencies, the Department of State, the Department of Defense, and the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service (USFWS).

Moreover, the focused collection, analysis, and reporting of intelligence by a variety of U.S. government actors
against wildlife trafficking, illegal fishing, and illegal mining could beget new opportunities to understand the criminal
linkages to foreign governments, including China's, to confirm or dismiss concerns as to whether Chinese fishing
vessels carry spy equipment, and to identify Mexican and other dangerous cartels' crucial vulnerabilities.

To such end, crimes against nature should be elevated as a collection and reporting priority of the U.S. Intelligence
Community, and within the U.S. National Priorities Framework.

Stove-piping in information and intelligence gathering across a wide set of illicit economies should be ended.
Gathered information and intelligence should be shared with interagency analysis groups intent on interdicting the
illicit international flow of scheduled drugs and endangered species. Such efforts could be enabled by significantly
increasing the number of USFWS special agents and by augmenting their respective participation in interagency
Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces investigations.

The relevant intelligence on crimes against nature to understand and dismantle criminal networks could include
names, phone numbers, license plates, courier accounts, bank accounts, and wiretapped conversations.
Conversely, countering groups perpetrating crimes against nature could be productive in terms of freezing accounts
and visas to interdict the smuggling of drugs, guns, and humans that they're conducting.

Enhancing intelligence collection and law enforcement action opportunities to cover all activities of dangerous and
nefarious actors, including crimes against nature, requires enlarging the pool of USFWS special agents and
uniformed wildlife inspectors at the U.S.-Mexico border and transportation hubs within the United States. The DEA
appropriately enjoys strong capacities, currently maintaining a force of 4,000 agents. n82 In contrast, the number of
USFWS special agents has for years hovered at a mere and insufficient 220. n83 For years, this inadequate
number has not increased even though poaching, illegal logging, mining, and trafficking in natural resource
commodities have grown enormously over the past three decades, are continually expanding, and increasingly
involve Mexican drug cartels as well as Chinese criminal networks.

As a corollary and imperative effort, U.S. law enforcement agencies' legal authorities to counter wildlife trafficking
should be expanded. Importantly, wildlife trafficking should be designated as a predicate offense for wiretap

                                                                                           Page 22 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

authorizations. n84 Such expanded authority would bring about multiple benefits: including the enabling,
understanding, and demonstration of the connections between wildlife trafficking and transnational organized crime
networks and foreign bad actors, enhancing the ability to disrupt fentanyl trafficking, and allowing for more
expeditious and pointed prosecution of wildlife trafficking crimes. Currently, federal legislation at the foundation of
wildlife crime prosecution, at the core of which is the Lacey Act, often entails proof of knowledge on the part of the
defendant, a requirement that wiretap authorization would greatly facilitate, in the interest of prosecuting
transnational wildlife trafficking and convicting criminal syndicates.

Many fentanyl-trafficking networks are not narrowly specialized in fentanyl or drugs only. Fentanyl smuggling
networks have powerful protectors among corrupt government officials worldwide.

Incentivizing better cooperation from the Chinese and Mexican criminal governments is important. However, given
the challenges in inducing such cooperation in the current geopolitical environment and the current Mexican
government's policy orientation, it is equally crucial to enhance the United States' own policy tools to counter
fentanyl-trafficking networks. Expanding the intelligence-gathering aperture and mandating and resourcing a whole-
of-government approach in support of U.S. law enforcement against priority target criminal actors will save U.S.
lives currently decimated by fentanyl overdoses.

n1 Julie O'Donnell, Lauren J. Tanz, R. Matt Gladden, Nicole L. Davis, and Jessica Bitting, "Trends in and
Characteristics of Drug Overdose Deaths Involving Illicitly Manufactured Fentanyls--United States, 2019-2020,"
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 70, No. 50, December 17, 2021.

n2 Merianne Rose Spencer, Arialdi M. Minino, and Margaret Warner, "Drug Overdose Deaths in the United States,
2001-2021," NCHS Data Brief No, 457, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Center for Health
Statistics,   U.S.     Department       of    Health   and     Human       Services,   December        2022,
https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/databriefs/db457.pdf.

n3 The White House, Office of National Drug Control Policy, "Dr. Rahul Gupta Releases Statement on CDC's New
Overdose Death Data," January 11, 2023, https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2023/01/11/dr-rahul-
gupta-releases-statement-on-cdcs-new-overdose-death-data-
2/#:~:text=Rahul%2520Gupta%252C%2520Director%2520of%2520the,period%2520ending%2520in%2520August
%25202022.

n4 Mark Landler, "U.S. and China Call Truce in Trade War," The New York Times, December 1, 2018,
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/01/world/trump-xi-g20-merkel.html.

n5 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with six current and former international drug policy officials, by virtual
platforms, November and December 2021.

n6 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with two U.S. drug policy experts specializing in online sales of precursor
agents, by virtual platforms, December 2021.

n7 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interview with a foreign correspondent who has reported on China's fentanyl and
precursor markets, by virtual platform, November 2021.

n8 Mike Wendling, "Five Things We Learned from the Biden-Xi Meeting," BBC, November 16, 2023,
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-67433961.

n9 Martin Purbrick, "The Workshop of the World and the Tide of Fentanyl from China," Substack newsletter, The
Asian Crime Century, February 16, 2024, https://asiacrimecentury.substack.com/p/the-workshop-of-the-world-and-
the.

n10 Nike Ching, "US Lifts Sanctions on Chinese Institute to Seek Fentanyl Cooperation," Voice of America,
November     16,   2023,    https://www.voanews.com/a/us-lifts-sanctions-on-chinese-institute-to-seek-fentanyl-

                                                                                           Page 23 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

cooperation-/7358446.html; and Office of Public Affairs, "Commerce Department to Add Nine Chinese Entities
Related to Human Rights Abuses in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region to the Entity List," U.S. Department of
Commerce, May 22, 2020, https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2020/05/commerce-department-add-
nine-chinese-entities-related-human-rights.

n11 Janis Mackey Frayer and Jennifer Jett, "U.S. and China to Hold High-Level Talks Aimed at Curbing the
Fentanyl Crisis," NBC News, January 26, 2024, https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/us-china-fentanyl-talks-
opioids-drugs-epidemic-precursor-rcna135399.

n12 Drazen Jorgic, "Special Report: Burner Phones and Banking Apps - Meet the Chinese 'brokers' Laundering
Mexican Drug Money," Reuters, December 3, 2020, https://www.reuters.com/article/us-mexico-china-cartels-
specialreport/special-report-burner-phones-and-banking-apps-meet-the-chinese-brokers-laundering-mexican-drug-
money-idUSKBN28D1M4/.

n13 Emilio Parodi, "Insight: Italian Drugs Cartels Conceal Payments via Chinese Shadow Banks | Reuters,"
Reuters, April 6, 2023, https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/italian-drugs-cartels-conceal-payments-via-chinese-
shadow-banks-2023-04-06/.

n14 Jorgic.

n15 Ibid.

n16 For further details, see various hearings of the Commission of Inquiry into Money Laundering in British
Columbia," https://www.cullencommission.ca; and Sam Cooper, "Exclusive: How B.C. casinos are used to launder
millions in drug cash," Vancouver Sun, September 29, 2017, https://vancouversun.com/news/national/exclusive-
how-b-c-casinos-are-used-to-launder-millions-in-drug-cash.

n17 Joanna Ossinger and David Ingles, "These Charts Show Impact of China's Casino Crackdown on Macau,"
Bloomberg, September 15, 2021, https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-09-16/these-charts-show-impact-
of-china-s-casino-crackdown-on-macau.

n18 Drazen Jorgic, "Special report: Burner phones and banking apps."

n19      Homeland       Security   Investigations, Cornerstone       Issue      No.     48,     January     2024,
https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/USDHSICE/bulletins/37fff16.

n20 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with U.S. law enforcement officials, spring 2024.

n21 Vanda Felbab-Brown, "China's Role in Poaching and Wildlife Trafficking in Mexico" (The Brookings Institution,
March 2022, https://www.brookings.edu/events/chinas-role-in-poaching-and-wildlife-trafficking-in-mexico/).

n22 For background, see Vanda Felbab-Brown and Alejandro Castillo, "Restore US-Mexico seafood trade and save
the vaquita," Mexico Today, May 7, 2021, https://mexicotoday.com/2021/05/07/opinion-restore-us-mexico-seafood-
trade-save-the-vaquita/; and Enrique Sanjurjo-Rivera et al., "An Economic Perspective on Policies to Save the
Vaquita: Conservation Actions, Wildlife Trafficking, and the Structure of Incentives," Frontiers in Marine Science
(August 27, 2021), https://doi.org/10.3389/fmars.2021.644022.

n23 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with U.S. law enforcement officials, Mexico City and by virtual platforms,
October 2021.

n24 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with U.S. law enforcement officials, spring 2024.

n25 See, Ryan Hass, "What America Wants From China," Foreign Affairs, October 24, 2023,
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/united-states/what-america-wants-china-hass; Dan De Luce, "China Helps Russia

                                                                                           Page 24 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

Evade Sanctions, Likely Supplies Moscow with War Tech Used in Ukraine," NBC News, July 27, 2023,
https://www.nbcnews.com/news/investigations/china-helps-russia-evade-sanctions-tech-used-ukraine-war-
rcna96693; and Courtney Kube and Carol E. Lee, "Chinese Balloon Got Intel from U.S. Military Sites, despite
Efforts to Block It," NBC News, April 3, 2023, https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/china-spy-balloon-
collected-intelligence-us-military-bases-rcna77155.

n26 Laura He, "Analysis: China's Economy Had a Miserable Year. 2024 Might Be Even Worse | CNN Business,"
CNN, December 28, 2023, https://www.cnn.com/2023/12/27/economy/china-economy-challenges-2024-intl-
hnk/index.html.

n27 The White House Staff, "Readout of President Joe Biden's Meeting with President Xi Jinping of the People's
Republic of China," The White House, November 16, 2023, https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-
releases/2023/11/15/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-president-xi-jinping-of-the-peoples-republic-of-
china-2/.

n28 United States Department of State Staff, "Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats," United States
Department of State, July 2023, https://www.state.gov/globalcoalition/.

n29 United States Department of State Staff, "Highlighting U.S. and Global Efforts to Address the Health and
Security Threats of Synthetic Drugs Through Global Cooperation," United States Department of State, September
26, 2023, https://www.state.gov/highlighting-u-s-and-global-efforts-to-address-the-health-and-security-threats-of-
synthetic-drugs-through-global-cooperation/.

n30 The White House Staff, "Memorandum on Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit or Major Illicit Drug
Producing    Countries    for   Fiscal    Year       2024,"    The    White     House,      September 15,  2023,
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/15/memorandum-on-presidential-
determination-on-major-drug-transit-or-major-illicit-drug-producing-countries-for-fiscal-year-2024/.

n31 Office of Public Affairs Staff, "Justice Department Announces Eight Indictments Against China-Based Chemical
Manufacturing Companies and Employees," United States Department of Justice, October 3, 2023,
https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-eight-indictments-against-china-based-chemical-
manufacturing; and U.S. Department of the Treasury Staff, "Treasury Targets Large Chinese Network of Illicit Drug
Producers," U.S. Department of the Treasury, March 13, 2024, https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-
releases/jy1779.

n32 Office of Public Affairs Staff, "Justice Department Announces Charges Against China-Based Chemical
Manufacturing Companies and Arrests of Executives in Fentanyl Manufacturing," United States Department of
Justice, June 23, 2023, https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-charges-against-china-based-
chemical-manufacturing-companies.

n33 Editorial Staff, "Senator Hassan Statement on U.S.-China Fentanyl Agreement," Office of Sen. Maggie Hassan,
November 16, 2023, https://www.hassan.senate.gov/news/press-releases/senator-hassan-statement-on-us-china-
fentanyl-agreement.

n34 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with U.S. government officials, fall and winter 2023 and spring 2024.

n35 See Paul Mozur, Muyi Xiao, and John Liu, "'An Invisible Cage': How China Is Policing the Future," The New
York Times, June 26, 2022, sec. Technology, https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/25/technology/china-surveillance-
police.html; and American Addiction Centers Editorial Staff, "Drug Laws Around the World: Death Penalty for
Drugs," Drug Abuse, December 17, 2013, https://drugabuse.com/blog/the-20-countries-with-the-harshest-drug-
laws-in-the-world/.

                                                                                           Page 25 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

n36 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with U.S. government officials, fall and winter 2023 and spring 2024, and with
Chinese drug policy experts, spring 2024.

n37 Vanda Felbab-Brown, "China and Synthetic Drugs Control: Fentanyl, Methamphetamines, and Precursors"
(Washington,     D.C:    The   Brookings    Institution,   March    2022),  https://www.brookings.edu/wp-
content/uploads/2022/03/FP_20221107_drug_trafficking_felbab_brown.pdf.

n38 See, Anisha Kohli, "Inside the Emerging Xylazine Addiction Crisis in the U.S.," TIME, May 18, 2023,
https://time.com/6280860/xylazine-fentanyl-philadelphia-addiction-crisis/; Adam Holland et al., "Nitazenes--
Heralding a Second Wave for the UK Drug-Related Death Crisis?," The Lancet Public Health 9, no. 2 (February
2024): e71-72, https://doi.org/10.1016/S2468-2667(24)00001-X; and Alison Athey, Beau Kilmer, and Julie Cerel,
"An Overlooked Emergency: More Than One in Eight US Adults Have Had Their Lives Disrupted by Drug Overdose
Deaths,"      American     Journal    of   Public     Health     114,     no.  3  (March   2024):    276-79,
https://doi.org/10.2105/AJPH.2023.307550.

n39 The White House, "Background Press Call on Bilateral Engagements and Trilateral Fentanyl Committee's
Fourth Meeting in Mexico," https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/02/08/background-
press-call-on-bilateral-engagements-and-the-trilateral-fentanyl-committees-fourth-meeting-in-mexico/.

n40 Vanda Felbab-Brown, "A Dangerous Backtrack on the US-Mexico Security Relationship," Mexico Today,
December 21, 2020, https://www.brookings.edu/blog/order-from-chaos/2020/12/21/a-dangerous-backtrack-on-the-
us-mexico-security-relationship/.

n41 "Mexico softens rules for controversial new foreign agents law," Reuters, January 14, 2021,
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-mexico-usa-security/mexico-softens-rules-for-controversial-new-foreign-agents-
law-idUSKBN29J24M.

n42 Dilanian.

n43 "Summary of the Action Plan for U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe
Communities: A Fact Sheet," U.S. Department of State, January 31, 2022, https://www.state.gov/summary-of-the-
action-plan-for-u-s-mexico- bicentennial-framework-for-security-public-health-and-safe-communities/. --

n44 Laura Gottesdiener and Brendan O'Boyle, "Fentanyl use spreads deeper into Mexico, on heels of US
epidemic," February 20, 2024, https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/fentanyl-use-spreads-deeper-into-mexico-
worrying-authorities-2024-02-20/.

n45 "Mexican president floats banning use of medicinal fentanyl," Reuters, March 15, 2023,
https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/fentanyl-use-spreads-deeper-into-mexico-worrying-authorities-2024-02-
20/; Thomas Graham, "Carriers sneak life-saving drugs over border as Mexico battles opioid deaths," The
Guardian, January 23, 2024, https://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2024/jan/23/mexico-us-overdose-
drug-naloxone-fentanyl-opioid.

n46 Ken Dilanian, "Drug war cooperation between the U.S. and Mexico is at its lowest point in decades. What went
wrong?" NBC News, March 17, 2023, https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/no-cooperation-us-
mexico-drug-war-rcna75093; Vanda Felbab-Brown, "The U.S.-Mexico Fentanyl Meltdown -- Part I: The State of
Noncooperation," Mexico Today, March 19, 2023, https://mexicotoday.com/2023/03/19/opinion-the-u-s-mexico-
fentanyl-meltdown-part-i-the-state-of-noncooperation/.

n47 Mark Stevenson, "Mexican president to US: Fentanyl is your problem," Associated Press, March 9, 2023,
https://apnews.com/article/mexico-fentanyl-epidemic-overdoses-26f735a54ee0ba075c394ce85aef03d0; "Mexican
president blames US fentanyl crisis on 'lack of hugs' among families," Associated Press, March 17, 2023,
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/mar/17/mexico-president-fentanyl-hugs-children-

                                                                                           Page 26 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

amlo#:~:text=%25E2%2580%259CThere%2520is%2520a%2520lot%2520of,said%2520of%2520the%2520US%25
20crisis; Vanda Felbab-Brown, "AMLO's Security Policy: Creative Ideas, Tough Reality," The Brookings Institution,
March 2019, https://www.brookings.edu/wpcontent/uploads/2019/03/FP_20190325_mexico_anti- crime.pdf.

n48 Connor Sheets and Keri Blakinger, "Fentanyl-tainted Pills Now Found in Mexican Pharmacies from Coast to
Coast," The Los Angeles Times, June 14, 2023, https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2023-06-14/fentanyl-
tainted-pills-now- found-in-mexican-pharmacies-from-coast-to-coast; and Deborah Bonello, "Cartels Are Using
Pharmacies To Sell Fake Pills Laced With Fentanyl and Meth to Unwitting Tourists," Vice News, June 14, 2023,
https://www.vice.com/en/article/m7bbxv/mexico-pharmacies-fake-pills-cjng-sinaloa-cartel.

n49 Brittny Mejia, "Mexico Raids Pharmacies in Probe of Fentanyl-Laced Pills," Los Angeles Times,
https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2023-07-07/mexican-authorities-raid-pharmacies-in-inquiry-into-
fentanyl-tainted-pills.

n50 "Mexico shutters 23 pharmacies at Caribbean coast resorts after US warned of dangerous pill sales,
Associated Press, August 8, 2023, https://apnews.com/article/mexico-pharmacies-dangerous-pills-sold-tourists-
bb64a0f5ff23bf087cf40a8a22f94084."

n51 "Mexico raids and closes 31 pharmacies in Ensenada that were selling fentanyl-laced pills," Associated Press,
December          8,        2023,        https://apnews.com/article/mexico-fentanyl-ensenada-pharmacies-raids-
88461569ff1c8a56281992be434bec28.

n52 Drazen Jorgic and Jackie Botts, "Under US pressure over fentanyl, Mexico wages "imaginary war on drugs,"
Reuters, December 21, 2023, https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/under-us-pressure-over-fentanyl-mexico-
wages-imaginary-war-drugs-with-raids-2023-12-21/; and Drazen Jorgic, Jackie Botts, and Stephen Eisenhammer,
"Exclusive: Amid U.S. pressure on fentanyl, Mexico raises drug lab raids data," Reuters, March 17, 2023.

n53 Arlene Getz, "Haiti joins list of countries where killers of journalists most likely to go unpunished," Committee to
Protect Journalists, https://cpj.org/reports/2023/10/haiti-joins-list-of-countries-where-killers-of-journalists-most-likely-
to-go-unpunished/.

n54 "One Mexican journalist attacked every 13 hours in 2022: Report," Al Jazeera, March 28, 2023,
https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/3/28/advocacy-group-says-2022-most-deadly-year-for-mexican-journalists.

n55 "No One Guarantees My Safety: The Urgent Need to Strengthen Mexico's Federal Policies for the Protection of
Journalists,"  Committee     to  Protect   Journalists   and    Amnesty     International,     March     2024,
https://www.amnesty.org/en/documents/AMR41/7666/2024/en/.

n56 Rafael Bernal, "Mexican president doxes New York Times correspondent during press conference," The Hill,
February        22,      2024,        https://thehill.com/latino/4482880-mexican-president-amlo-doxes-new-york-
times/#:~:text=The%20president%27s%20screen%20displayed%20a,the%20displayed%20contact%20phone%20n
umber.

n57 Mary Beth Sheridan and Oscar Lopez, As the number of missing people surges, Mexico's president seeks a
recount," The Washington Post, August 8, 2023, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2023/08/26/mexico-
missing-disappeared-lopez-obrador/.

n58 Luis Chaparro, "The Wrong People Just Got Their Hands on an Elite Drone Unit," The Daily Beast, August 22,
2023,            https://www.thedailybeast.com/mexicos-jalisco-new-generation-cartel-just-created-an-elite-drone-
unit#:~:text=The%20ruthless%20Jalisco%20New%20Generation,drone%20operations%20into%20high%20gear;
and Keegan Hamilton and Kate Linthicum, "Soldiers and civilians are dying as Mexican cartels embrace a terrifying
new weapon: Land mines," Los Angeles Times, March 8, 2024, https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2024-
03-09/mexico-cartel-land-mines-weapons.

                                                                                           Page 27 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

n59 Sara Garcia and Daniela Valle, "Criminal Violence Paralyzes Mexico's Southern State of Guerrero," InSight
Crime, February 13, 2024, https://insightcrime.org/news/criminal-violence-paralyzes-guerrero-mexico/; and Juliana

n60 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with government officials, NGO representatives, and business community
members in Quintana Roo, Oaxaca, Puebla, and Sinaloa, June, July, and November 2023.

n61 Diego Badillo, "Proceso electoral 2024 podria ser el mas violento de la historia, advierten analistas (The 2024
electoral process could be the most violent in history, analysts warn)," El Economista, January 14, 2024,
https://www.eleconomista.com.mx/politica/2024-puede-ser-el-ano-mas-violento-de-la-historia-para-candidatos-en-
campanas-advierten-analistas-20240112-0069.html; and Maria Calderon, "Political Violence in Mexico's 2024
Elections: Past and Future," The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, March 11, 2024,
https://www.wilsoncenter.org/article/political-violence-mexicos-2024-elections-past-and-future.

n62 "Defunciones por Homicidios (Deaths due to homicides)," National Institute of Statistics and Geography
(INEGI),                     The                     Government                    of                    Mexico,
https://www.inegi.org.mx/sistemas/olap/proyectos/bd/continuas/mortalidad/defuncioneshom.asp?s=est#; Executive
Secretariat of the National Public Security System (SESNSP), "Datos Abiertos de Incidencia Delictiva (Open Crime
Incidence Data)," The Government of Mexico, https://www.gob.mx/sesnsp/acciones-y-programas/datos-abiertos-
de-incidencia- delictiva?state=published; Diego Mendoza, "Mexico marks another record-breaking year for
murders," January 17, 2024, https://www.semafor.com/article/01/17/2024/mexico-records-most-violent-period-in-
modern-history; and National Search Commission, Statistics from the National Registry of Missing and Unlocated
Persons, The Government of Mexico, https://versionpublicarnpdno.segob.gob.mx/Dashboard/ContextoGeneral.

n63 Catalina Ku?hne Peimbert, et al, "Impunidad en homicidio doloso y feminicidio 2022 (Impunity in intentional
homicide         and       feminicide         2022),"       Impunidad       Cero,      December          2022,
https://www.impunidadcero.org/uploads/app/articulo/175/contenido/1669895146I15.pdf; and Vanda Felbab-Brown's
interviews with Mexican security and legal experts, Mexico City, June 2023.

n64 Felbab-Brown, "China's Role."

n65 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with current and former U.S. and Mexican officials and law enforcement
officers and Mexican fishery experts and high-level fishery operators, Mexico City, and by virtual platforms, October
and November 2021.

n66 See, for example, "Feuding drug cartels block roads near U.S. border as gunmen force children off school bus,"
CBS News, May 3, 2023, https://www.cbsnews.com/news/mexico-cartels-block-roads-near-us-border-gunmen-
force-children-off-school-bus/.

n67 Nathaniel Parish Flannery, "Cargo Truck Hijacking Is A Major Problem In Mexico," Forbes, February 19, 2024,
https://www.forbes.com/sites/nathanielparishflannery/2024/02/19/cargo-truck-hijacking-is-a-major-problem-in-
mexico/?sh=506b7fe2256d.

n68 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interview with a top executive of a large Mexican seafood exporter, Mexico, November
2021.

n69 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with Latin American law enforcement officials, December 2017, November
2021, and February 2022.

n70 Vanda Felbab-Brown's interviews with U.S. Government and law enforcement officials, Washington, DC, spring
2023.

n71 Yolanda Mongeelias Camhaji, "US general: Russia has more spies deployed in Mexico than in any other
country, El Pais, March 26, 2022, https://english.elpais.com/international/2022-03-26/us-general-russia-has-more-
spies-deployed-in-mexico-than-in-any-other-country.html.

                                                                                           Page 28 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

n72 Vanda Felbab-Brown, "How Mexico's Cartel Jalisco Nueva Generacion Rules," Mexico Today, May 29, 2022,
https://mexicotoday.com/2022/05/29/opinion-how-mexicos-cartel-jalisco-nueva-generacion-rules/

n73 Vanda Felbab-Brown, "How the Sinaloa Cartel Rules,"                      Mexico    Today,      April   3,   2022,
https://mexicotoday.com/2022/04/03/opinion-how-the-sinaloa-cartel-rules/.

n74 "U.S. Attorney Announces Charges Against Leadership Of The Sinaloa Cartel And 25 Other Defendants In
Massive Fentanyl Importation And Trafficking Conspiracies," U.S. Department of Justice, April 14, 2023,
https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/us-attorney-announces-charges-against-leadership-sinaloa-cartel-and-25-
other-defendants; "What We Learned from the Testimony of the DEA Administrator- Part II," Mexico Today,
September 8, 2023, https://mexicotoday.com/2023/09/08/opinion-what-we-learned-from-the-testimony-of-the-dea-
administrator-part-ii/.

n75 "El Chapo's sons bar fentanyl production in Sinaloa, according to banners," Reuters, October 3, 2023,
https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/el-chapos-sons-ban-fentanyl-production-sinaloa-according-banners-2023-
10-
03/#:~:text=Last%20month%2C%20Ovidio%20Guzman%2C%20the,Sinaloa%2C%22%20the%20banners%20said.

n76 Michael Stott and Christine Murray, The Militarization of Mexico's Economy, Financial Times, August 2, 2023,
https://www.ft.com/content/6a119a1c-c251-4909-824d-96bca4d23a91.

n77 Nina dos Santos, "Exclusive: China Operating over 100 Police Stations across the World with the Help of Some
Host Nations, Report Claims | CNN," CNN, December 4, 2022, https://www.cnn.com/2022/12/04/world/china-
overseas-police-stations-intl-cmd/index.html.

n78 Office of Public Affairs Staff, "Two Arrested for Operating Illegal Overseas Police Station of the Chinese
Government," United States Department of Justice, April 17, 2023, https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/two-arrested-
operating-illegal-overseas-police-station-chinese-government; and Emile Dirks and Diana Fu, "China's Overseas
Police Stations: An Imminent Security Threat?," The Brookings Institution, February 16, 2024,
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/chinas-overseas-police-stations-an-imminent-security-threat/.

n79 Jintamas Saksornchai and Grant Peck, "UN Anti-Drug Agency Warns There Is No Let-up in Methamphetamine
Trade from Asia's Golden Triangle | AP News," AP News, June 2, 2023, https://apnews.com/article/asia-golden-
triangle-drugs-report-methamphetamine-e761e1acb0074f2286e65c752e276b61.

n80 Adam Shaw, "Senators Urge Biden Admin to Slap Sanctions, Visa Bans on Mexican Officials to Force Action
against Cartels," Fox News, June 21, 2023, https://www.foxnews.com/politics/senators-call-biden-admin-impose-
sanctions-mexican-officials-force-action-against-drug-cartels.

n81 "DHS's New Operation Blue Lotus Has Already Stopped More Than 900 Pounds of Fentanyl from Entering the
United      States,"    U.S.     Department     of      Homeland        Security    March      21,     2023,
https://www.dhs.gov/news/2023/03/21/dhss-new-operation-blue-lotus-has-already-stopped-more-900-pounds-
fentanyl-
entering#:~:text=Since%20its%20launch%20on%20March,States%20through%20Sunday%2C%20March%2019.

n82 DEA Administrator Anne Milgram, DEA Leadership profile, https://www.dea.gov/about/dea-
leadership#:~:text=As%20Administrator%2C%20she%20leads%20an,foreign%20offices%20across%20the%20glo
be

n83 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Office of Law Enforcement, "Law Enforcement at a Glance," Fiscal Year 2022,
October 28, 2022.

n84 See 18 USC 2516, Authorization for interception of wire, oral, or electronic communications.

                                                                                           Page 29 of 29
     Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Spending
                     Oversight Hearing "Strengthening International Cooperation to St....

Read this original document at: https://www.hsgac.senate.gov/subcommittees/etso/hearings/strengthening-
international-cooperation-to-stop-the-flow-of-fentanyl-into-the-united-states/felbabbrown-prepared-statement-2/


Load-Date: March 22, 2024


  
