

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
    Riskonnect Announces Generative AI for Business Continuity Planning Leading risk management technology
                          provider releases new functionality to significantly spee....




  Riskonnect Announces Generative AI for Business Continuity Planning;
Leading risk management technology provider releases new functionality to
          significantly speed up business continuity plan creation
                                                    Business Wire
                                     February 13, 2024 Tuesday 2:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 471 words
Dateline: ATLANTA

Body


Riskonnect , the leader in integrated risk management (IRM) solutions, today announces generative AI-powered
enhancements to its Business Continuity & Resilience solution. The software now leverages generative AI to
suggest new content when business continuity and disaster recovery professionals draft or update important
documents, including business continuity plans, business impact analysis, and incident templates. The
enhancement significantly streamlines the traditionally time-intensive business continuity planning process.

"Generative AI is a powerful technology that holds immense potential for transforming the risk function," said
Kathryn Carlson, senior vice president of product management at Riskonnect. "By integrating AI into our Business
Continuity & Resilience solution, we're empowering our customers to create more comprehensive business
continuity plans faster and increase their preparedness and ability to respond to disruptions. We've innovated with
AI for over a decade and this latest development reflects our ongoing dedication to leveraging the latest
advancements to drive value for our customers and revolutionize how businesses identify, assess, and respond to
risk."

Riskonnect has a dedicated innovation lab that explores new risk management use cases for AI in collaboration
with partners and customers. The technology provider is committed to expanding and enhancing the applications of
AI across its platform.

The ongoing integration of AI into Riskonnect's integrated risk management platform will help companies transform
the way they manage risk in several ways, including enabling organizations to identify their most critical risks,
assess their potential impact, and propose mitigation strategies for specific threat events. Companies will also be
able to better simulate diverse scenarios including financial crises, cyberattacks, natural disasters, and supply chain
disruptions to boost their preparedness for such events. Predictive models that forecast future risks will empower
professionals to make better decisions and evaluate various strategies more effectively.

Learn more about Riskonnect's approach to AI.

About Riskonnect

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
   Riskonnect Announces Generative AI for Business Continuity Planning Leading risk management technology
                         provider releases new functionality to significantly spee....

Riskonnect is the leading integrated risk management software solution provider. Our technology empowers
organizations with the ability to anticipate, manage, and respond in real-time to strategic and operational risks
across the extended enterprise. More than 2,500 customers across six continents use our unique risk-correlation
technology to gain previously unattainable insights that deliver better business outcomes. Riskonnect has more
than 1,100 risk management experts in the Americas, Europe, and Asia. To learn more, visit https://riskonnect.com/
.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240213698471/en/


CONTACT: Corporate Ink for Riskonnect
Abigail Holmes

riskonnect@corporateink.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: February 13, 2024


  
