

                                                                           Page 1 of 4
        FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON WANG WENBIN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON
                                     JANUARY 29, 2024




 FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON WANG WENBIN'S REGULAR PRESS
                CONFERENCE ON JANUARY 29, 2024
                                                 States News Service
                                              January 29, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1955 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BEIJING, China

Body


The following information was released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China:

CCTV: On January 27, 2024, President Xi Jinping and French President Emmanuel Macron delivered video
speeches and exchanged congratulatory messages on the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic
relations between the two countries. What's China's comment and expectations on China-France relations?"

Wang Wenbin: France is the first major western country to establish diplomatic relations at the ambassadorial level
with New China. This year marks the 60th anniversary of the diplomatic ties. As President Xi stressed, 60 years
ago, China and France broke the ice of the Cold War, bridged the divide between different blocs, and pushed the
global landscape to evolve in the right direction of dialogue and cooperation, which still offers inspiration for today.
Over the past 60 years, the two countries have adhered to independence, achieved common development through
mutually beneficial cooperation, promoted mutual learning among civilizations through exchanges on an equal
footing, and jointly addressed global challenges through multilateral coordination. We have not only benefited the
people of both countries but also played a vital role in maintaining global peace and stability, promoting a multipolar
world, and advancing greater democracy in international relations. The current China-France relations maintain
sound growth. In particular, since last year, the bilateral interactions at various levels have rebounded quickly and
cooperation across the board has born fruitful results, demonstrating the vigor of China-France relations in the post-
COVID era.

The two countries both value the 60th anniversary and will jointly hold events throughout the year
to"celebrate"the"anniversary"and"mark"the China-France Year of Culture and Tourism. The reception celebrating
the anniversary was held in Beijing and attended by Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee
and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and over 200 Chinese and French from various sectors who are committed to China-
France friendship. Standing at the new starting point of historic importance, China stands ready to work with France
to stay true to the original aspiration of establishing diplomatic relations, undertake the historical mission, make
China-France comprehensive strategic partnership more solid and dynamic and contribute wisdom and efforts to
global peace, security, prosperity and progress.

                                                                          Page 2 of 4
       FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON WANG WENBIN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON
                                    JANUARY 29, 2024

Bloomberg: Donald Trump has discussed with his advisers the possibility of imposing a flat 60 percent tariff on all
Chinese imports. This is according to people familiar with the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity and
reported by the Washington Post. Does the Foreign Ministry have any comment on Mr. Trump's plans to impose 60
percent tariff on all Chinese imports?

Wang Wenbin: We don't comment on unverified information. I want to stress that the economic and trade relations
between China and the US are mutually beneficial and win-win in nature. Upholding sound and steady growth of
China-US economic and trade ties serves the fundamental interests of both countries and our peoples and is
conducive to global economic growth.

Sky News: China was questioned on the deportation of defectors from North Korea at the UN Human Rights
Council's Periodic Review last week. How does China justify the deportation?

Wang Wenbin: First of all, there is no so-called "DPRK defectors" in China. People who illegally enter into China for
economic reasons are not refugees. They violate Chinese laws and the entry and exit order of China. China will
handle these illegal entries under the principles of both domestic and international laws and the spirit of
humanitarianism."

Taking this opportunity, I'd like to brief you on the UN Human Rights Council's Universal Periodic Review (UPR). On
January 26, the 45th session of the UN Human Rights Council's UPR Working Group adopted unanimously its
report on the fourth cycle of the UPR of China. After the session, representatives from many countries sent
congratulations to China. The delegation of the Chinese government attended the UPR session on January 23 and
had constructive dialogue with representatives of other countries in an open and candid manner. More than 120
countries spoke highly of China's human rights progress, and fully acknowledged China's effort in advancing and
protecting human rights."

China is advancing the cause towards a strong and prosperous country and national rejuvenation in all respects
through Chinese modernization. In achieving this grand goal, we will deliver more gains of modernization to all
people more fairly, continue to better safeguard human rights and strengthen the free and well-rounded
development of our people. While China promotes high-quality development of its own human rights cause, it will
always hold high the banner of peaceful development and win-win cooperation, seek others' success as well as
ours with a global vision, and advocate an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and
inclusive economic globalization. China will work with the international community to unswervingly advance and
protect human rights, proactively take part in global human rights governance, champion humanity's common
values, and build a community with a shared future for mankind to jointly make the world a better one.

Nikkei: The Chinese government and the Thai government yesterday signed the agreement on visa mutual
exemption for holders of ordinary passport. Why is that the Chinese government has not yet resumed the pre-
pandemic visa-free policy to Japan? Many Japanese companies hope to see the visa-free policy resumed soon.
What's the condition for the policy to resume?

Wang Wenbin: China always attaches high importance to facilitating foreigners' visits to China, including Japanese
citizens. We will intensively look into the request from all sectors in Japan for resuming the visa-free policy to travel
to China. We hope that Japan can work with us in the same direction to make cross-border travel between our two
countries easier.

News 1 Korea: First, Vice Foreign Minister Sun Weidong concluded his recent visit to the DPRK. Will there be any
high-level dialogues between China and the DPRK in the future? Second, after ROK Foreign Minister Cho Tae-yul
took office, the Chinese Foreign Minister sent him a congratulatory message but has not had the first telephone call
with him. When will they have their first call?

Wang Wenbin: China released readouts on Vice Foreign Minister Sun Weidong's visit to the DPRK. You may look it
up. I have nothing more to share with you on the plan of China-DPRK exchanges for the next stage.

                                                                          Page 3 of 4
       FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON WANG WENBIN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON
                                    JANUARY 29, 2024

After Foreign Minister Cho Tae-yul took office, Foreign Minister Wang Yi sent him a congratulatory message. China
is willing to keep in touch with the ROK on the plans of future exchanges between the two foreign ministers.

Bloomberg: Bloomberg is reporting that the US wants cloud computing firms to reveal the names of their foreign
clients who were developing artificial intelligence apps on their platforms. That means that Washington could use
those requirements to choke off a major avenue, through which Chinese firms access crucial servers for AI training
and hosting. Does the Foreign Ministry have a comment on these plans for the US to ask cloud computing
companies to reveal the names of their foreign clients?

Wang Wenbin: AI development and governance bears on the future of humanity. It requires concerted and
coordinated response, not decoupling, severing of supply"chains nor fence-building. We urge the US side not to act
contrarily to the laws of sci-tech advancement, earnestly respect the principles of market economy and fair
competition, and create favorable conditions for strengthening international AI coordination and cooperation.

Nikkei: China implemented a visa-free policy for Germany, France, Italy and some other European countries last
December but they have yet to waive visas for Chinese travelers. It seems that reciprocity is not a must in China's
visa-free policy. What's your comment?

Wang Wenbin: Countries make independent decisions on their visa policy. We welcome other countries to work
with China to facilitate cross-border travel. Recently, Singapore and Thailand signed with China visa mutual
exemption agreements. France and Switzerland also announced to provide more visa facilitation for Chinese
citizens. We believe that these measures will effectively promote cross-border travel and mutually beneficial
cooperation between China and relevant countries.

CCTV: It's reported that the UN International Court of Justice (ICJ) ordered provisional measures on South
Africa's""genocide""case"against Israel. The order asks Israel to take all measures within its powers to prevent any
incitement to "genocide" in the Gaza Strip and improve the humanitarian situation there. What's China's comment?
Does China support the ICJ order?

Wang Wenbin: China noted the provisional measures issued by the ICJ. The order, supported by the majority of
judges"of"the"court, responds to the international community's concern on protecting civilians, deescalating the
situation and easing the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. We hope that the ICJ's provisional measures can be
effectively implemented.

China's position on the Palestinian question is consistent and clear. We condemn all acts against civilians and
oppose all moves that violate international law. China urges parties to the conflict to realize a comprehensive
ceasefire at once, abide by the international humanitarian law and prevent an even worse humanitarian disaster
from happening. The fundamental way out of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict is to implement the two-State solution
and promote the comprehensive, just and lasting settlement of the Palestinian question at an early date.

Shenzhen TV: The Comoros Supreme Court recently confirmed the re-election of the incumbent President Azali
Assoumani who secured 57.02 percent of the vote. What is your comment?

Wang Wenbin: We noted that the Comoros Supreme Court has released the result of the presidential election and
extend our sincere congratulations on Mr. Azali Assoumani's re-election as the President of Comoros. We believe
that with the continued leadership of President Azali Assoumani, greater progress will be made in national building
and economic and social development of Comoros.

China attaches importance to growing its friendly relations with Comoros, and will work with the new government to
deepen mutually beneficial cooperation in all areas and inject new impetus into the sound and stable development
of the bilateral relations.

Reuters: Papua New Guinea is in an early negotiation with China on a potential security and policing deal, its
Foreign Minister said in an interview with Reuters. The Minister said that China has approached Papua New Guinea

                                                                          Page 4 of 4
       FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON WANG WENBIN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON
                                    JANUARY 29, 2024

with an offer to assist its police force with training, equipment and surveillance technology. Could we confirm with
the Ministry if these talks are true and at what stage are these talks?

Wang Wenbin: I'm"not"aware"of"the"specifics"and"would"refer"you"to"competent"authorities."Papua New Guinea is
China's good friend and partner in the Pacific islands region. Our comprehensive strategic partnership has
developed well. Over the years, China has carried out friendly cooperation with Papua New Guinea in policing and
other fields on the basis of equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, openness and inclusiveness. China stands
ready to continue to work with Papua New Guinea to promote cooperation in related fields and advance common
development.


Load-Date: January 29, 2024


  
