

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 2
                                NATION'S GOVERNORS MEET WITH PRESIDENT BIDEN




                 NATION'S GOVERNORS MEET WITH PRESIDENT BIDEN
                                               States News Service
                                            February 23, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 356 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the National Governors Association (NGA):

The nation's Governors met at the White House today with President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris,
Cabinet members and senior White House advisers to discuss bipartisan priorities.

Governors of more than 40 states and territories are attending the National Governors Association (NGA) Winter
Meeting this week in Washington, D.C., to discuss bipartisan solutions to housing affordability, artificial
intelligence risks, workforce development, disaster response and other priorities.

In a wide-ranging discussion at the White House, Governors called on Congress and the Administration to work
together to address national challenges.

"Governors agree that overcoming our nation's challenges requires working together across party lines and across
state lines,"saidGovernor Cox. "We can't let political division get in the way of good policy. We welcome the
opportunity to work with the White House and with Congress on finding bipartisan solutions to border security,
economic stability and other challenges."

"I thank President Biden and the White House for their partnership and for bringing the Governors together today to
discuss the important issues facing our states and our country,"said Governor Polis. "This annual bipartisan
gathering is an exciting opportunity to bring Colorado issues to Washington, D.C., while learning from each other
and celebrating the important work being done to deliver real results for the people we serve."

Later Friday, Governors welcome U.S. Supreme Court Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Amy Coney Barrett for a
discussion on Gov. Cox's "Disagree Better" initiative, which aims to help Americans overcome toxic polarization. On
Saturday, Governors will welcome Cabinet officials and national experts for sessions on artificial intelligence,
housing affordability, disaster response, rural revitalization and workforce development.

TheWinter Meetingis one of the two marquee annual convenings of the National Governors Association, the
bipartisan organization representing Governors from the 55 states and territories.

                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                         NATION'S GOVERNORS MEET WITH PRESIDENT BIDEN


Load-Date: February 24, 2024


  
