

                                                                            Page 1 of 6
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON APRIL 19, 2024




       FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS
                     CONFERENCE ON APRIL 19, 2024
                                                 States News Service
                                                 April 19, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 3769 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BEIJING, China

Body


The following information was released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China:

From April 20 to 28, Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Secretary of the Central
Political and Legal Affairs Commission of the CPC Chen Wenqing will travel to Russia to attend the 12th
International Meeting of High Representatives for Security Issues and visit Russia at the host's invitation.

CRI: Foreign Minister Wang Yi is on an official visit to Indonesia upon invitation from April 18 to 19. Can you brief us
on the visit?

Lin Jian: Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi is
on a visit to Indonesia from April 18 to 19. He met with Indonesian President Joko Widodo and President-elect
Prabowo Subianto respectively. Foreign Minister Wang co-chaired the Fourth Meeting of the China-Indonesia High-
Level Dialogue Cooperation Mechanism with Indonesia's Coordinator for Cooperation with China Luhut Binsar
Pandjaitan. Foreign Minister Wang held talks with Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi and they met the
press together.

Foreign Minister Wang Yi said under the strategic guidance of President Xi Jinping and President Joko Widodo, the
two countries have opened a new chapter of building a community with a shared future. The impressive
achievement that China and Indonesia made in growing our relations is a result of a shared commitment to strategic
independence, mutual trust, mutual assistance, win-win cooperation and fairness and justice. The two sides need to
continue deepening strategic mutual trust, synergize development strategies, upgrade practical cooperation through
high-quality Belt and Road cooperation and work to build a China-Indonesia community with a shared future with
regional and global impact.

The Indonesian side said its government attaches high importance to growing its ties with China and underscored
Indonesia's commitment to the one-China policy. In recent years, the two countries' comprehensive strategic
partnership has maintained a sound momentum of growth. Indonesia looks forward to working with China to carry
forward and further advance bilateral strategic cooperation on a higher level, uphold mutual respect, increase

                                                                            Page 2 of 6
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON APRIL 19, 2024

mutual benefits and jointly contribute more stability and positive energy for regional and global development and
prosperity.

The two sides agreed that our two countries need to carry forward our fine tradition in cooperation and help each
other in making steady progress in our respective paths toward modernization with distinctive characteristics. Our
two countries need to put development first, stand for universally-beneficial and inclusive economic globalization
and oppose unilateralism and protectionism. Our two countries need to enhance multilateral collaboration, move
toward an equal and orderly multipolar world, oppose stoking division and bloc confrontation in the region and
uphold the common interests of the vast developing countries.

The two sides had in-depth communication on the Middle East situation and other international and regional issues
of mutual interest and stressed readiness to work with the international community to play a constructive role in
easing regional tensions.

AFP: Iran's state media reported that there were explosions in the central province of Isfahan today. US officials
later told media that Israel launched the attack. What is China's response to these reports?

Lin Jian: China noted the reports. We oppose any action that could further escalate the situation.

Anadolu Agency: The US vetoed a United Nations Security Council resolution demanding Palestine's full
membership at the UN. Twelve member states including China voted in favor but the resolution couldn't be passed
because of US veto. What's China's comment about the US veto and the outcome of the vote?"

Lin Jian: China's Permanent Representative to the United Nations has fully stated our position in his explanation of
vote. An independent State of Palestine has been a long-cherished dream for generations of Palestinians. Full UN
membership for Palestine is a crucial step in this historic process. Palestine first submitted a membership
application as early as 2011. It was US opposition then that the Council's action was put on hold. Thirteen years
later, It was again US veto that denied Palestine full UN membership and shattered the decades-long dream of the
Palestinian people. History and people of the world will not forget this unconscionable act."

The Palestinian-Israeli conflict is still persisting. A severe humanitarian crisis continues to unfold in Gaza. The US
denied Palestine's full UN membership, but it can't deny the region's call for immediate ceasefire, the Gazans' need
for humanitarian aid, and the global desire for a just and lasting solution to the question of Palestine. The
international community needs to fully implement relevant UNSC and UNGA resolutions, fully respect the will of the
Palestinian people, return to the two-State solution and establish an independent State of Palestine at an early
date. Only by doing so can there be peace between Palestine and Israel, harmony between Arab and Jewish
peoples, and lasting peace in the Middle East.

On the question of Palestine, China always stands on the side of peace, justice and human conscience. China
firmly supports full UN membership for Palestine, and will continue to work relentlessly and constructively with
relevant parties to bring an early end to the fighting in Gaza, alleviate the humanitarian catastrophe, and implement
the two-State solution.

China Daily: We noted that recently the US has kept hyping up the issue of China's "overcapacity". Do you have
any further comment on the issue of "overcapacity"?

Lin Jian: Blaming China for "overcapacity" is not new. Years ago, the US accused China of "overcapacity" for
exporting many high-quality, low-cost products. Now it is sticking the label of "overcapacity" to China's export of
new energy products. The US exports 80 percent of its chips, especially advanced chips and is a large exporter of
pork and agricultural products. Is that "overcapacity" according to US logic? In fact, the ratio of export to production
for Chinese new energy vehicle is far lower than that of Germany, Japan and the ROK. This is certainly not
"dumping extra products into the global market". "Overcapacity" may look like an economic issue, but truth is, the
US is using it to hit Chinese industries and give the US itself an unfair advantage in market competition. It's another
example of US economic coercion and bullying.

                                                                            Page 3 of 6
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON APRIL 19, 2024

In today's world, supply and demand are both global, and the capacity of each country is determined by
comparative advantage. This must be seen from an objective, dialectical and rational perspective based on the laws
of economics. China's leading edge in new energy is gained through strong performance, tech innovation and full-
on market competition. A sick person doesn't get well by forcing others to take the medicine. Those who use
overcapacity to justify protectionism have nothing to gain and will only destabilize global industrial and supply
chains, harm emerging sectors and hinder the world's climate response and green transition. We urge the US to
abandon the hegemonic mindset, keep an open mind, play fair, observe market economy principles and
international trade rules, provide a truly world-class, market-oriented and law-based environment for trade and
economic cooperation, and work with the rest of the world to advance universally beneficial and inclusive economic
globalization.

Xinhua News Agency: Amid the tense international landscape and frequent regional conflicts and turbulence,
traditional and nontraditional security challenges keep emerging. Over the past two years since the Global Security
Initiative was put forward by China, we have contributed to resolving global security difficulties and promoting
common security of humanity. Can you share more details with us?

Lin Jian: In April 2022, President Xi Jinping put forward the Global Security Initiative (GSI) which is an important
concept and action plan. Over the past two years, China has implemented the vision of building a community with a
shared future for mankind and worked with the international community to fully implement the GSI and make
important progress.

The GSI has built up international consensus on seeking common security through solidarity and cooperation. The
initiative advocates a new path to security featuring dialogue over confrontation, partnership over alliance and win-
win over zero-sum. Two years on, the GSI has gained the support and recognition of over 100 countries and
international and regional organizations. It has been written into a host of bilateral and multilateral documents of
exchange and cooperation signed between China and other countries or international organizations. The
cooperation under the GSI framework is advancing steadily.

The GSI has provided viable solutions to solving disputes and differences, and managing risks and crisis. In
particular, China released position papers on the Ukraine crisis, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the Afghan issue
to strive for peace talks and play a constructive role for the political resolution of regional hotspots. China facilitated
the reconciliation between Saudi Arabia and Iran, and set off a "wave of reconciliation" across the Middle East. We
have set a good example for relevant countries in the region to resolve disputes, and uphold good-neighborliness
and friendship.

The GSI has provided strong impetus to uphold global peace and tranquility. China released the Global Security
Initiative Concept Paper, and has deepened international cooperation on peacekeeping, counter-terrorism, climate
change, disaster relief and the fight against transnational organized crime. Facing security difficulties in emerging
areas, such as cybersecurity and AI governance, China released the Global Initiative on Data Security and the
Global AI Governance Initiative to set the pace for international security governance in emerging areas.

The GSI has improved international security dialogue and platform and guided regional security cooperation to
move forward. China has advanced security exchange and cooperation under the framework of the Shanghai
Cooperation Organization, the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, and East Asia
cooperation. We have established a host of international platforms on security exchange and dialogue, such as
Beijing Xiangshan Forum, the Global Public Security Cooperation Forum (Lianyungang), the China-Africa Peace
and Security Initiative and the China-Latin America High-level Defense Forum. We have pooled the consensus and
efforts of the international community to address security challenges.

As an important public good offered by China to address international security challenges, the GSI is increasingly
relevant to the times and much more valuable. All peace-loving and development-minded countries and
organizations are welcome to join in GSI cooperation with China to jointly build a better world with lasting peace and
common security." "

                                                                            Page 4 of 6
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON APRIL 19, 2024

Reuters: This is regarding Israel's attack of Iran's Isfahan city. Iran this week told Minister Wang Yi that it has no
intention to further escalate tensions in the Middle East after its attack over the weekend. Given this latest attack by
Israel, would China engage in further discussions with parties in the Middle East? In particular, will China talk to
Israel?

Lin Jian: China opposes any action that further escalates tension in the Middle East and will continue to play a
constructive role in easing the situation.

CCTV: US President Biden said in his speech in Pittsburgh that for too long, the Chinese government has poured
state money into Chinese steel companies, pushing them to make so much steel and it ends up dumping the extra
steel into the global markets at unfairly low prices, which caused damage in America. He said the US Trade
Representative is investigating China's steel and aluminum sectors and threatened to triple the tariff rates for both
steel imports and aluminum imports from China. He said that the administration is also taking a real hard look at the
Chinese government's industrial practices when it comes to global shipbuilding, and that if the Chinese government
is doing that and the unfair tactics to undermine free and fair trade competition in the shipping industry, the US will
take action. Do you have more comments on that?

Lin Jian: Those comments are far-fetched. They hurt China-US trade ties and deviate from the common
understandings between the two presidents in San Francisco. China expresses grave concern and dissatisfaction
over those comments.

First, China's steel sector is mainly aimed at meeting domestic demand and receives no export-oriented subsidies.
Only 5 percent of our steel is exported, far lower than Japan, the ROK and other steelmakers, which means the
influence of our steel exports on the international market is very limited. The US, on the other hand, spends
hundreds of billions of dollars on discriminatory domestic subsidies and abuses export controls citing "national
security", which hinders normal international trade in chips and other products. What a double standard for the US
to accuse China for "non-market practices".

Second, various US studies show that the US shipbuilding industry lost its competitive advantage many years ago
due to over-protection. The growth of relevant industries in China is a result of companies' tech innovation and
participation in market competition. It also benefits from China's fully-fledged industrial manufacturing system and
vast domestic market. Blaming US's own industrial woes on China lacks factual basis and economic common
sense.

Third, according to WTO ruling, the former US administration was wrong to impose additional steel and aluminum
tariffs on certain WTO members and launch Section 301 investigation and raise tariffs on China. Instead of
correcting its mistake, the US chose to double down on it by threatening with new tariff hikes and announcing a new
Section 301 investigation.

China will closely follow how the investigation proceeds. We urge the US to be prudent in its words and deeds, stop
manipulating issues on China in the election year, stop turning economic and trade issues into security ones, lift
additional tariffs on China and stop imposing new ones. China will take all steps necessary to firmly defend our own
rights and interests.

Global Times: It's reported that the Philippines' Department of Foreign Affairs issued the Statement in Response to
Chinese Statement on the PH-JP-US Trilateral Summit. It said that the trilateral cooperation is a partnership and a
cooperative framework for the promotion of peace, stability and economic prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region. It
should not be considered a threat by any peace-loving country. China's unwarranted references to the Cold War
misrepresent the peaceful purpose of the trilateral cooperation. China should reflect upon its actions in the South
China Sea, observe international law and promote regional peace and stability. What's China's comments?

Lin Jian: China has made its position clear on the trilateral summit between the US, Japan and the Philippines.
What's the true purpose of the summit? Are they seeking regional peace and cooperation or engaging in group
politics and forming exclusive groupings? The people are not blind. The Philippine statement in response to China's

                                                                            Page 5 of 6
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON APRIL 19, 2024

stance on the PH-JP-US summit has little truth in it. It says nothing about what truly caused the problem, but tries to
make the Philippines look like the victim and blame China. It's the Philippines who should reflect on its own actions.

China's position on the South China Sea is consistent and clear. Over the past few months, maritime disputes
between China and the Philippines have heated up. The root cause is the Philippines' breach of its commitments,
frequent provocations and infringement on China's territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests. The
Philippines has even attempted to get forces outside the region on board to embolden itself and put pressure on
China. No provocation or coercion will deter China from safeguarding its sovereignty and rights and interests.

The Philippines needs to know that it will not get its way by leaning on the US. The only path to a peaceful and
stable region lies in commitment to good-neighborliness, returning to dialogue and consultation and maintaining
strategic independence.""

China News Service: The China Wildlife Conservation Association and the San Francisco Zoo of the US signed the
Letter of Intent on International Cooperation of Giant Panda Conservation this morning. Can you share more about
this?

Lin Jian: We noted that China Wildlife Conservation Association released relevant information. We are glad to see
the two sides reach a letter of intent on the cooperation on giant panda conservation. It is learned that the two sides
will make various preparations and try to send a pair of giant pandas to San Francisco Zoo in 2025.

Giant pandas are not only a national treasure of China but also welcomed and loved by people across the world.
They are emissaries and bridges for friendship. The US is one of the first countries to carry out cooperation with
China on giant panda conservation. Since the 1990s, the Chinese and US researchers have worked together to
successfully breed 17 giant panda cubs, contributing to the conservation and breeding of giant pandas. Meanwhile,
the two sides have conducted joint study on the conservation of giant pandas in the wild, their feeding and
breeding, and disease prevention, control and treatment. Together, the two sides cracked a number of difficult
technical issues, enhanced sci-tech exchanges and capacity building in the conservation of giant pandas and other
endangered wildlife, and played a positive role in improving the overall conservation of giant pandas, building closer
bond between the two peoples and deepening people-to-people friendship.

As we understand, this round of cooperation will continue to fully tap the collective wisdom, resources and
knowledge of the two sides, improve the capability and level of the conservation of endangered species and
biological diversity, and contribute to the friendship between the two peoples.

Reuters: Yesterday, the European Union said it sees signs that China is supplying components to Russia that could
be used to make weapons. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen as well as UK Finance Minister Jeremy Hunt also
had a discussion on China's role in supplying Russia's military. How does China view these discussions happening
among the Western powers?

Lin Jian: China is not a party to or involved in the Ukraine crisis. China's position is fair and objective. We actively
promote peace talks and never fuel the flame or seek selfish gains. China and Russia have every right to normal
economic and trade cooperation, which should not be interfered with or restricted. The US and some European
countries, among others, also trade with Russia. What's important is to reflect on the root cause of the crisis and do
something that will actually bring back peace.

CCTV: The US Department of State released its Report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control,
Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments days ago, accusing China of failing to adhere to
its nuclear testing moratoria and conducting sensitive biological activities for military purposes. What's China's
comment?

Lin Jian: Year after year, the US releases the so-called report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control,
Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments. The report ignores facts and is full of
preconceptions. On one hand, the report says nothing about the US's poor record on arms control, disarmament,

                                                                            Page 6 of 6
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON APRIL 19, 2024

and nonproliferation. On the other hand, the report smears other countries with baseless accusations on their
compliance. China firmly opposes it.

On international arms control and nonproliferation, China is committed to true multilateralism and upholds the
international system with the UN at its core and the international order based on international law. China has
faithfully fulfilled its international obligations and commitments and contributed to upholding the international arms
control and nonproliferation system with concrete actions.

In contrast, the US continues to follow a Cold War mentality and keeps stoking major-country confrontation. The US
has little restraint in its military build-up and relentlessly seeks absolute advantage in the field of security. This has
seriously jeopardized global and regional strategic stability. To sling mud at other countries in order to deflect
attention and shirk responsibilities has become the US's go-to tactic. The international community is clear-eyed
about this. We urge the US to stop pointing fingers at other countries, take a hard look at its track record in arms
control, disarmament, and nonproliferation, and earnestly respond to the legitimate concerns of the international
community on the US's compliance.

Dragon TV: It's reported that Tokyo Electric Power Company started to dump the fifth batch of Fukushima nuclear-
contaminated water into the ocean on April 19. The discharge is expected to last until May 7 and reach nearly 7,800
tonnes. What's China's comment?

Lin Jian: Since the unilateral launch of the discharge, despite international and domestic opposition, Japan has yet
to resolve stakeholders' concerns on the safety of nuclear-contaminated water discharge, the long-term reliability of
the purification system and the effectiveness of monitoring arrangement. Even so, Japan went ahead with the fifth
round of discharge, essentially spreading the risk of contamination worldwide. This is rather irresponsible. China
firmly opposes it.

The ocean discharge of the Fukushima nuclear-contaminated water bears on the health of all humanity, the global
marine environment and the global common good. Japan needs to take seriously domestic and international
concerns and handle the discharge properly with a responsible and constructive attitude. China urges Japan to
cooperate fully in creating an independent, effective and long-term international monitoring scheme with substantive
participation of Japan's neighbors and other stakeholders, so as to avoid irrevocable consequences stemming from
the ocean discharge.


Load-Date: April 19, 2024


  
