

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 4
                    Charles Sturt University : Surviving Global Pressures - Podcast Series Launched




      Charles Sturt University: Surviving Global Pressures - Podcast Series
                                    Launched
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              March 8, 2024 Friday 9:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1194 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: BATHURST, Australia

Body


(TNSres) -- The Charles Sturt University issued the following news:

The latest Charles Sturt University podcast series - Global Pressures shines the spotlight on the growing pressures
our world is under and how essential industries need to adapt to overcome these challenges.

* The latest Charles Sturt University podcast series - 'Global Pressures' uncovers solutions to critical pressures
being experienced by a variety of sectors

* Each episode features experts and students who reveal the pressures these industries are facing and how the
world can adapt and overcome key challenges associated

* Episodes cover IT/artificial intelligence, agriculture, social work, law and justice and paramedicine

The latest Charles Sturt University podcast series - Global Pressures shines the spotlight on the growing pressures
our world is under and how essential industries need to adapt to overcome these challenges.

There are five episodes within the Global Pressures Podcast Series. Each episode features experts across a range
of fields who are at the cutting edge of advancement and innovation and are currently navigating and developing
solutions to critical challenges in industries, such as:

* IT and artificial intelligence

* Agriculture

* Social work

* Law and justice and

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 4
                  Charles Sturt University : Surviving Global Pressures - Podcast Series Launched

* Paramedicine.

Course Director and Senior Lecturer in Computing in the Charles Sturt School of Computing, Mathematics and
Engineering Dr Jason Howarth shared his knowledge on the emergence of lifechanging technologies during the IT
and Artificial Intelligence episode.

"The industry itself has changed astronomically in the last few decades and the technology we now have at our
fingertips continues to advance faster than we could have ever imagined," he said.

***

"The ways artificial intelligence could, and likely will be used aren't all for the better. In my podcast episode, I'll
share my predictions of what threats will arise and how we can overcome them, as well as how these new
technologies can work in our favour."

***

Senior Lecturer in Social Work in the Charles Sturt School of Social Work and Arts Dr Bernadette Moorhead said
the podcast series helped bring vital discussions around the wellbeing of society to the forefront.

***

"Social workers are critical in supporting people through roles such as counselling, disaster relief, foster care and
even as you'll find out in the podcast - through funeral homes and end-of-life care," she said.

***

"We're currently experiencing an ongoing cost-of-living crisis, a housing crisis and have been battling a range of
natural disasters, so my podcast will discuss how our essential workforce is finding new ways of operating, and new
places to operate from, to continue to help those in need."

The agricultural industry is another critical workforce finding new ways to keep the world's population fed and
clothed.

Senior Research Fellow in the Gulbali Institute of Agriculture, Water and Environment Dr Shawn McGrath said
biosecurity was a key focus of the agricultural industry.

"Being an island, we're fortunate in Australia to have a natural barrier helping to keep diseases out, but it's not a
given, and biosecurity incursions can occur," he said.

"In my episode, I'll discuss the ways we're using and advancing technologies in the livestock industry like RFID tags
in sheep and cattle to be prepared for any biosecurity threats and also to make our overall processes on-farm more
efficient."

Paramedics are also facing a major shift in the way they can respond to emergencies and the types of incidents
they attend.

Lecturer in Paramedicine and Head of Discipline (Post Graduate Courses) in the Charles Sturt School of Nursing,
Paramedicine and Healthcare Sciences Ms Tania Johnston said her episode of the podcast discussed these
changes and what it means for those at the centre.

"There's a much broader scope of practice for us now, meaning an increased demand for our services and the need
to be 'ready for anything," she said.

"While we pride ourselves on being just that, these demands can take a toll on a paramedic, so we're working really
hard to look after our own mental health in order to be the best paramedics we can to help the public."

                                                                                                      Page 3 of 4
                  Charles Sturt University : Surviving Global Pressures - Podcast Series Launched

Senior Lecturer and Discipline Lead for Law in the Charles Sturt Centre for Law and Justice Ms Haley McEwen said
the inclusion of First Nations perspectives in lawmaking is not only a matter of human rights, it is the key to
environmental sustainability that could make a major difference to our health and wellbeing.

"First Nations people have such intimate knowledge of our natural world," she said.

"We know climate change is a major threat worldwide, and we can learn so much from First Nations practices like
cool burns to prevent catastrophic bushfires by engaging actively in law reform and policy development around
environmental management which could benefit our rural communities and society."

Listen to each of the five episodes within the Charles Sturt Global Pressures podcast series below:

Episode 1. Artificial intelligence - Balancing risk and reward, featuring:

* Course Director and Senior Lecturer in Computing in the Charles Sturt School of Computing, Mathematics and
Engineering Dr Jason Howarth

* Second-year Bachelor of Information Technology student at Charles Sturt University, Mr Mitchell Dederer

Episode 2. Agriculture - Food, fibre and a fight against climate change, featuring:

* Senior Lecturer in Precision Agriculture and Spatial Science in the Charles Sturt School of Agricultural,
Environmental and Veterinary Sciences Dr Remy Dehaan

* Senior Research Fellow in the Gulbali Institute of Agriculture, Water and Environment Dr Shawn McGrath

Episode 3. Social Work - Disasters generate jobs in social work, featuring:

* Senior Lecturer in Social Work in the Charles Sturt School of Social Work and Arts Dr Bernadette Moorhead

* Second-year Master of Social Work student at Charles Sturt University, Ms Lauren Rose

Episode 4. Paramedicine - A new age of emergencies, featuring:

* Lecturer in Paramedicine and Head of Discipline (Post Graduate Courses) in the Charles Sturt School of Nursing,
Paramedicine and Healthcare Sciences Ms Tania Johnston

* Lecturer in Paramedicine in the Charles Sturt School of Nursing, Paramedicine and Healthcare Sciences Mr
Robert Bear

* Charles Sturt Bachelor of Paramedicine graduate Miss Sarah Byden

Episode 5. Law - Informing law through First Nations culture, featuring:

* Senior Lecturer and Discipline Lead for Law in the Charles Sturt Centre for Law and Justice Ms Haley McEwen

* Lecturer in Law in the Charles Sturt Centre for Law and Justice and First Nations identified woman Ms Jennifer
Hartley

* Charles Sturt Bachelor of Laws graduate Mr Darryl Hahn

The complete series is available here (https://soundcloud.com/user-83287832-705182774/sets/charles-sturt-
podcast-series-global-pressures/s-
vjxPUzwkTEE?si=d23c5dc9ff2343e5bd9f2ae8aa84181c&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaig
n=social_sharing).

***

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 4
                    Charles Sturt University : Surviving Global Pressures - Podcast Series Launched

Original text here: https://news.csu.edu.au/latest-news/surviving-global-pressures-podcast-series-launched

Contact: Jessica McLaughlin, 0430 510 538, news@csu.edu.au

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8519612 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: March 8, 2024


  
