

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 4
                   Outstanding NSW Technology Innovation Showcased at 31st Annual AIIA IAwards




   Outstanding NSW Technology Innovation Showcased at 31st Annual AIIA
                                IAwards
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            July 25, 2024 Thursday 8:20 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1680 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: GRIFFITH, Australia

Body


The Australian Information Industry Association issued the following news release:

Australia's peak industry representative body for innovation technology, the Australian Information Industry
Association (AIIA), is proud to announce the winners of the 2024 NSW iAwards. As Australia's longest running
innovation recognition program, the awards unearth, recognise and reward excellence in Australian innovation.

In his keynote address, the Minister for Customer Service and Digital Government, the Hon Jihad Dib MP noted the
importance of developing digital infrastructure alongside the physical infrastructure, ensuring reliable
communication channels for NSW citizens. He also spoke about the inevitable need to ride the AI wave already
here in order to reap the benefits and manage risks with many of the winners in the awards showcasing AI in their
solutions.

AIIA CEO, Simon Bush, said: "We are incredibly proud to celebrate the 31st annual iAwards this year. The high
level of ability and passion of our tech innovators that rises up in the iAwards never ceases to amaze and inspire.
All entrants deserve recognition for their hard work and brilliant ideas. We want to thank them for their continued
commitment to furthering Australia's capability in innovation technology."

Mr Bush said: "The finalists and winners show the diversity of innovation occurring across the economy and how
technology can solve both economic and societal issues. The exciting developments we are seeing with the
adoption of AI highlights the possibilities and productivity gains our economy can harness through innovative
technologies. The winners of the 2024 iAwards continue to reflect the immense talent in Australia's ICT sector."

The 2024 NSW iAwards are presented to winners and merit recipients in seven categories to showcase the breadth
of innovation and technology across multiple sectors.The 2024 NSW iAwards winners by category are:

* Business & Industry, sponsored by asana

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 4
                 Outstanding NSW Technology Innovation Showcased at 31st Annual AIIA IAwards

- Winner: Smart Clinician for accelerating clinical trials by Telstra Health

- Merit recipient: InnerSteps by InnerSteps (Incorporated as Ellie Holdings Pty Ltd)

* Education & Student

- Winner: InnerSteps by InnerSteps (Incorporated as Ellie Holdings Pty Ltd)

* Government & Public Sector, sponsored by the Digital Transformation Agency

- Winner: Aerial Search and Rescue System (ASARS) by University of Technology Sydney(UTS)

- Merit recipient: Water Quality Prediction for Sustainable Future by University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

* Not for Profit & Community, sponsored by AustralianSuper

- Winner: InnerSteps by InnerSteps (Incorporated as Ellie Holdings Pty Ltd)

- Merit recipient: Aerial Search and Rescue System (ASARS) by University of Technology Sydney(UTS)

- Merit recipient: iAgeHealth virtual multidisciplinary clinical hub by McLean Care

* Start-Up, sponsored by CDC

- Winner: Good To Go by Know-Where

- Merit recipient: InnerSteps by InnerSteps (Incorporated as Ellie Holdings Pty Ltd)

* Sustainability & Environmental, sponsored by Lenovo

- Winner: Water Quality Prediction for Sustainable Future by University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

- Merit recipient: Gravitational Energy Storage System by Green Gravity

- Merit recipient: OPENAIR by UTS Institute for Sustainable Futures (ISF)

* Technology Platform, sponsored by Reason Group

- Winner: 1Centre by 1Centre Limited

- Merit recipient: Cost-effective rapidly deployable high data-rate large area WiFi (LAWiFi) system by The University
of Sydney, UTS, Pivotel, NSW CIN

Details on each of our winners can be found below.

Each of the 2024 NSW iAwards winners will now compete for the coveted National iAwards title which will be
announced at the Gala event in August.

The AIIA iAwards are supported by the Department of Industry, Science and Resources, the South Australian
Government, CDC, the Digital Transformation Agency, Lenovo, asana, Reason Group, AustralianSuper and Dell
Technologies. The AIIA thanks them for their commitment to supporting the tech sector. AIIA is a not-for-profit
organisation aimed at supporting and advocating for Australia's future social and economic prosperity through
technology innovation.

***

AIIA's 2024 NSW iAwards - About the Winners

Smart Clinician for accelerating clinical trials by Telstra Health

                                                                                                           Page 3 of 4
                 Outstanding NSW Technology Innovation Showcased at 31st Annual AIIA IAwards

Telstra Health's Smart Clinician capability accelerates the conduct of clinical trials at scale to enable translation of
new evidence to improve the health and wellbeing of Australians. GPs can now easily participate as clinical trial
study investigators to help identify, screen and recall eligible patients and bring new clinical trials to their patients.
Patients, regardless of geographic location, can now be informed of and participate in clinical trials and contribute to
the generation of new evidence via their regular care provider. Clinical trial organisations can now make informed
decisions about where to set up clinical trials based on the availability of eligible patients and access a culturally
diverse population that spans rural and metropolitan areas; reducing the administrative burden and time taken to
enrol eligible patients.

InnerSteps by InnerSteps (Incorporated as Ellie Holdings Pty Ltd)

InnerSteps is a pioneering mobile application designed to address the growing mental health crisis among children
aged 5-12. Utilising advanced AI technology, InnerSteps offers personalised storytelling based on each child's
mental health needs, interests, and preferences, integrating clinical strategies to provide therapeutic benefits.

Aerial Search and Rescue System (ASARS) by University of Technology Sydney(UTS)

The ASARS solution introduces a unique approach to Search and Rescue operations in Vietnam and globally, by
integrating Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), Artificial Intelligence (AI), and remote sensing technologies. This
notable innovation is the world's first pre- and post- disaster surveillance and rescue system developed by UTS,
achieving a 90% accuracy in detecting target objects, which significantly surpasses the effectiveness of traditional
aerial surveillance methods.

Water Quality Prediction for Sustainable Future by University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

A water quality prediction toolkit has been implemented to assist the water industry in improving operational
resilience in adapting to the evolving landscape of potable water quality management.

The proposed solution involved a robust spatial-temporal machine learning approach, incorporating weather and
upstream effects to predict multiple water quality indicators. The solution benefits over half a million people in
Sydney and 80% of water users in Melbourne. It has made a further step towards properly using this vital natural
resource on the earth.

iAgeHealth virtual multidisciplinary clinical hub by McLean Care

iAgeHealth utilises secure video technology, Australian based infrastructure, and modern frameworks to provide on-
demand access to healthcare. By bringing a multidisciplinary team of healthcare professionals directly to the
patient's bedside, iAgeHealth enhances the quality of care and improves the quality of life for older individuals,
ensuring equitable healthcare access regardless of geographical location.

Good To Go by Know-Where

Good To Go specialises in digital readiness checks, operational inspections, and asset visibility solutions for first
responders. Our solutions streamline the activities associated with managing and maintaining equipment, giving
valuable time back to personnel throughout their day and ensuring emergency vehicles are "Good To Go".

Gravitational Energy Storage System by Green Gravity

Green Gravity is commercialising a technology utilising legacy mine shafts to move heavy weights vertically,
creating economic energy storage at a scale likely to provide material storage to the grid. By reusing legacy mining
infrastructure, the technology provides large scale renewable energy storage while proving for repurposing of
existing assets. The technology provides a low cost, highly sustainable solution for rapid uptake of renewable
energy.

OPENAIR by UTS Institute for Sustainable Futures (ISF)

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 4
                 Outstanding NSW Technology Innovation Showcased at 31st Annual AIIA IAwards

Poor air quality caused by bushfires, wood-fired heaters, agriculture, transportation, industry and urban heat is a
significant cause of health problems and premature death in Australian communities.

OPENAIR combats this pressing issue by building councils' capacity to capture, share and act on available local
data that is trusted and reliable. Following OPENAIR's best practice guidance, councils can address air pollution,
reduce carbon impacts and boost the quality of life of their communities.

1Centre by 1Centre Limited

1Centre is the only unified B2B trade-credit and relationship platform that lets you visualise, engage, decide, and
prove ROI by sales channel. Their full compliance platform is 90% faster than standard trade-credit processes. It
comes with built-in credit bureaux integrations for credit checks, government agency integrations for identity checks,
facial recognition, decisioning tools for custom workflows, anti-fraud smarts to de-risk approvals, on/off features to
maximise customer onboarding at the point of sale, fully configurable workflows to solve complexities like risk
profiles and approval processes and more.

Cost-effective rapidly deployable high data-rate large area WiFi (LAWiFi) system by The University of Sydney, UTS,
Pivotel, NSW CIN

LAWiFi revolutionises wide-area WiFi connectivity with three significant innovations: an innovative WiFi protocol
stack, an advanced high-gain wide-beam antenna design and a resilient Satellite backhaul solution. LAWiFi's
transformative technology not only fosters economic development but also enhances operational efficiency across
multiple industries and strengthens disaster resilience. By enabling seamless connectivity, LAWiFi plays a pivotal
role in driving global socio-economic progress.

***

Original text here: https://aiia.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/2024-07-25-Media-release-NSW-iawards-
announcements-final.pdf

[Category: Industrial Materials]

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8741542 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 25, 2024


  
