

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 5
      New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate TV Interviews, Airing Episode 561 on the FOX Business
                              Network Monday, March 11, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT




   New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate TV Interviews, Airing
Episode 561 on the FOX Business Network Monday, March 11, 2024, at 10:30
                                 PM PT
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                                March 8, 2024 Friday 6:30 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 3002 words

Body


NEW YORK, March 08, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- FMW Media's New to The Street, a nationally broadcasted
TV show, announces episode 561, airing on the FOX Business Network Monday, March 11, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT.

New to The Street's 561st TV episode line-up features the following five (5) Corporate interviews:

1)."Game Changers" segment interview with PetVivo Holdings, Inc.'s (NASDAQ: PETV) (NASDAQ: PETVW)
($PETV) John Lai, CEO/President.

2). "Game Changers" segment interview with Fetch.ai’s (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET) Humayur Sheikh, CEO.

3). Fire Suppression Solutions - General Enterprise Ventures, Inc.’s (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) wholly owned
subsidiary Mighty Fire Breaker, LLC.’s (MFB) interview with Steve Conboy, Inventor/ Chief Technology Officer.

4). Augment Reality (AR) Technology Platform- Rokid’s interview with Misa Zhu, Chief Executive Officer.

5). “Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO, Sekur
Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®).

Episode 561

New to The Street airs its "Game Changers" segment with TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry, who talks
with John Lai, CEO/President of PetVivo Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: PETV) (NASDAQ: PETVW) ($PETV)

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 5
     New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate TV Interviews, Airing Episode 561 on the FOX Business
                             Network Monday, March 11, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

("PetVivo"). With creative therapeutic medical innovations for pets, PETV is a "Game Changer." Owners of dogs,
cats, and horses are seeing remarkable results when using the Company's SPRYNG™ with OsteoCushion
Technology ("SPRYNG™"), an intra-articular injectable veterinary medical device consisting of cellular matrix
microparticles. Veterinarians are increasingly using the product as an alternative to surgery, helping pet owners
manage pets with osteoarthritis and other joint-related ailments. John goes over three corporate milestones. First, in
October 2023, veterinarians presented SPRYNG™'s positive study results on dogs with cranial cruciate ligament
(CCL) disease. The next milestone was the Company's ability to attract Covetrus North America, LLC, another
largest veterinarian medical distributor; now, the three largest medical distributors carry SPRYNG™. In January
2024, the third milestone veterinarian doctors who were keynote speakers at the Veterinary Meeting & Expo (VMX)
conference in Orlando, Florida, endorsing their successful use of the Company's SPRYNG™ product in small
animal cases. Also, Ethos Veterinary Health, LLC's study on canine hip dysplasia using the product shows success,
giving more veterinary doctors information about product uses. The Company expects sales increases for product
uses for small pets, dogs, and cats, as these recent studies, presentations, and distributors are educating pet
owners and vets about SPRYNG™ positive treatment outcomes. The Company has five more pending studies, with
expected results reported before the conclusion of 2024. PETV's SPRYNG™ with OsteoCushion Technology is a
"Game Changer" medical device that successfully treats pets and gives owners options beyond surgeries. The on-
screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit PetVivo Holdings, Inc. - https://petvivo.com/ &
Spryng with OsteoCushion Technology - https://www.sprynghealth.com/.

Fetch.ai’s (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET) CEO, Humayun Sheikh, is the second interview on New to The Street's "Game
Changers" segment with TV Host Ana Berry. Humayun gives a corporate progress update on its AI ecosystem and
the tools available for developers. Over 25000+ have signed up for access to the platform. Fetch.ai makes AI tools
available to many who can develop and deploy AI-based apps anytime, anywhere, and on an operational scale. As
an easy-to-use Fetch AI ecosystem, developers can create and deploy AI-based apps promptly and at an
affordable price. Humayun believes that large Big Tech entities should not control AI but be mainstream. He,
however, believes that governmental regulation should be in place to make sure AI is good for humankind. With
geopolitical tension and a forthcoming US election, AI-generated content needs validation for authenticity and
truthfulness. As an open platform for the new AI economy, Fetch.ai is the first AI Agent platform that allows
developers to create 100,000 apps. Fetch AI agents can connect, search, and transact from dynamic interactions,
promoting social well-being and economic growth. Building, deploying, and monetizing an open AI ecosystem,
Fetch.ai is a “Game Changer” for the AI technology industry. The on-screen QR code is available during the show;
download or visit Fetch AI - www.fetch.ai.

New to The Street airs TV Host Jane King's interview with Steve Conboy, Inventor and Chief Technology Officer of
 General Enterprise Ventures, Inc. (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) and its wholly owned subsidiary, Mighty Fire Breaker,
LLC. (MFB). Recognized as a leading provider of environmentally safe and sustainable solutions, Mighty Fire
Breaker, LLC products can provide firefighters with a proactive wildfire defense plan. Its CitroTech MFB
31 Technology (CitroTech) is a fire prevention spray product that can treat lumber and vegetation, making them
non-combustible. Using CitroTech with GPS tracking, mapping, and recording technology, firefighters have a
reliable solution when confronted with fires. Current products in the marketplace are toxic, killing wildlife and fish
when applied to suppress wildfires. After twelve years of development, Steve explained that he had looked at the
EPA list of food-friendly chemicals and had worked tirelessly to find a fire suppression product that would work
effectively and be environmentally sound. Many Government agencies and municipal fire departments have been
approached to adopt the new advanced fire suppression technology. The San Diego California Fire and Rescue
has recently started using MFB’s product for fire suppression needs. In a proactive method, San Diego fire
departments will spray emergency road routes with CitroTech to ensure surrounding woods and fields cannot catch
fire. Unfortunately, emergency routes become fire-compromised, with many victims occurring when leaving fire
areas. Steve believes many more fire departments and other agencies will adopt the product as many will see how
well the product works as a non-toxic and non-hazardous spray inhibitor. The on-screen QR code is available
during the shows; download or visit Mighty Fire Breaker, LLC. (MFB) & General Enterprise Ventures, Inc.
(OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) - https://mightyfirebreaker.com/index.html and https://generalenterpriseventures.com/.

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 5
     New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate TV Interviews, Airing Episode 561 on the FOX Business
                             Network Monday, March 11, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

Rokid’s Chief Executive Officer, Misa Zhu, talks with New to The Street’s TV Host, Jane King, about the Company’s
augmented reality (AR) technology platform, Max Pro Smart glasses, and other AR product offerings. Using Optical
See Through (OST) technology, Rokid has developed a robust AR-based product ecosystem. The Rokid’s Max Pro
Glasses are lightweight, only 76 grams, have excellent pixel resolution, and resemble traditional eyewear in
appearance and experience. Max Pro glasses boast spatial interaction AR capabilities and enable end-users to
enact gestures and auditory interactions, catering to mobile office scenarios with additional features like multi-
screen displays and virtual keyboards. Rokid's AR Studio, comprising Max Pro glasses, Station Pro, and AR Joy.
Many industry developers are using the Rokid spatial computing platform for AR applications. One of Japan’s larger
telecom providers uses the AR platform to create new customer user experiences. Business enterprises and
personal developers continue to utilize Rokid’s ecosystem, a distinguished AR landscape, a different and unique
experience beyond Apple's Vison Pro virtual immersion. Misa shares Rokid's future and a commitment to advancing
its ecosystem with continuing investments in content creation tools and developer support initiatives. Rokid's
industry success comes from its comprehensive technical groundwork, seamless integration with various use
cases, and robust AR ecosystem. Rokid holds 30% of the global market in the AR spatial computer industry. The
on-screen QR code is available during the shows; download or visit Rokid - https://global.rokid.com/.

New to The Street TV airs its "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security Segment – The Weekly Hack" with internationally
acclaimed internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO of Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR)
(FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF). TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry and Alain discuss a recent report from the
FBI about Chinese operatives cyberattacking America's energy grid and other critical infrastructure. The FBI
warning about grid attacks is nothing new; it appears that in each federal election cycle, foreign entities try to hack
governmental and corporate databases as a form of election interference and for other nefarious reasons. Business
Email Compromise (BEC) is a problem; 91% of hacks are from compromised email accounts. Alain says that
businesses and individuals can limit a possible cybersecurity problem by reducing social media posts. Typically, a
hacker follows a social media post, finds weaknesses in a poster's internet platform, and then exploits those
weaknesses. A hacker usually monitors email accounts for specific and personal information to hack. They might
watch emails for weeks, collecting sensitive data long before committing data theft. Sekur offers businesses,
individuals, and governmental entities affordable encrypted solutions to fend off possible email compromises.
SekurVPN, SekurMail, and SekurMessenger subscription services provide military-grade encryption with easy-to-
use features, giving end-users private and secure electronic communications. Many subscribers are realizing the
benefits of bundling subscriptions with the Company's SekurVPN services, which operate on multiple Sekur servers
owned and located in Switzerland, a country with very tough privacy laws. Under Swiss law, your IP address is
private property protected under Swiss laws. The Company never tracks your devices, never sells data, doesn't use
3rd party platforms, never asks for phone numbers, and keeps one's internet traffic private and secure. PROMO
CODE: PRIVACY is now available, giving 15% savings toward monthly and yearly subscriptions, and the discount
will remain active for five years. Viewers, please tune in next time for the newest cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur
Privacy & Sekur Security– Weekly Hack" segment. The on-screen QR. code is available during the shows to
download more info or visit Sekur Private Data, Ltd. – https://sekurprivatedata.com/, http:/sekur.com/ and
 https://sekur.com/en/vpn. Privacy has arrived!

About PetVivo Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: PETV) (NASDAQ: PETVW) ($PETV):

PetVivo Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: PETV) (NASDAQ: PETVW) ($PETV) is an emerging biomedical device company
currently focused on the manufacturing, commercialization, and licensing of innovative medical devices and
therapeutics for companion animals. The Company's strategy is to leverage human therapies to treat companion
animals in a capital and time-efficient way. A vital component of this strategy is the accelerated timeline to revenues
for veterinary medical devices, which enter the market much earlier than more stringently regulated
pharmaceuticals and biologics. PetVivo has a robust pipeline of products for treating animals and people. A portfolio
of twenty-one patents protects the Company's biomaterials, products, production processes, and use methods. The
Company's lead product, SPRYNG™ with OsteoCushion™ technology, a veterinarian-administered, intra-articular
injection for the Management of lameness and other joint-related afflictions, including osteoarthritis in cats, dogs,
and horses, is currently available for commercial sale - https://petvivo.com/.

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 5
     New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate TV Interviews, Airing Episode 561 on the FOX Business
                             Network Monday, March 11, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

About fetch.ai (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET)

Fetch.ai (CRYPTO: FET) ($FET) is an AI (artificial intelligence) Company that builds tools and infrastructure to
enable a decentralized digital economy. As an open AI decentralized machine learning platform, its distributed
ledger ecosystem allows secure sharing, connection, and transactions based on any data globally. Fetch.ai’s open-
source technology network allows any user to connect to the network, access the power of AI on a world-scale
secure dataset, and carry out complex coordination tasks in the modern economy https://fetch.ai/.

About General Enterprise Ventures, Inc. (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI):

General Enterprise Ventures, Inc. (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) is a fully integrated technology company providing
mergers and acquisitions of new and available technology. Management incubates first-to-market products through
its services and helps existing companies accelerate their product development within all regulatory requirements -
https://generalenterpriseventures.com/.

About Mighty Fire Breaker, LLC. (MFB):

Mighty Fire Breaker LLC (MFB) is a leading provider of environmentally safe and sustainable solutions for proactive
wildfire defense. Our portfolio includes EPA Safer Choice Certified Citrotech® Wildfire Inhibitors, mobile and
stationary spray application systems, and GPS-tracking, recording, and mapping technologies that support
intelligent, proactive wildfire defense management practices - https://mightyfirebreaker.com/index.html.

About Rokid:

Rokid, a leading innovator in the field, is at the forefront of this exciting development, pushing the boundaries of
what's possible with smart glasses display technology. The Company's ecosystem is the fascinating world of AI
smart glasses, exploring their inner workings, diverse applications, and potential impact on various aspects of our
lives. Renowned for its innovative smart glasses display technology, offering models like the Rokid Max and Rokid
Air that cater to both consumers and enterprise users. These glasses boast high-resolution displays, powerful AI
processors, and a wide range of features like voice control, translation, and AR overlays - https://global.rokid.com/.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About New to The Street:

New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running US and International
sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street." Since 2009, New to
The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S . television networks. The Nielsen-rated
and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US and international markets.
FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg and the FOX Business Network as sponsored
programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form paid
programming - https://www.newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking

                                                                                                  Page 5 of 5
     New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate TV Interviews, Airing Episode 561 on the FOX Business
                             Network Monday, March 11, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all filings of the Companies
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
Management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to Management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT:

FMW Media Contact:Monica Brennanmonica@NewtoTheStreet.com 1-917-330-2564

"New to The Street" Business Development Office1-516-696-5900Support@NewToTheStreet.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                          at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/227ab651-b5b8-47d5-8f2d-14900d002ae3



New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate TV Interviews, Airing Episode 561 on the Fox Business Network
Monday, March 11, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

Show 561: 1). PetVivo Holdings, Inc.(NASDAQ: PETV) (NASDAQ: PETVW) ($PETV) 2). Fetch.ai (CRYPTO: FET)
($FET) 3).General Enterprise Ventures, Inc. (OTCPink: GEVI) ($GEVI) & Mighty Fire Breaker, LLC.’s (MFB) 4).
Rokid 5). Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®) -
www.newtothestreet.com


Load-Date: March 8, 2024


  
