

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 4
   BG Titan Group and Veea Inc. Form a Strategic Partnership to Bring Internet Connectivity and Acutely Needed
                             Services to Underserved Communities in North Africa




BG Titan Group and Veea Inc. Form a Strategic Partnership to Bring Internet
Connectivity and Acutely Needed Services to Underserved Communities in
                              North Africa
                                                     Business Wire
                                        July 11, 2024 Thursday 10:00 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1732 words
Dateline: NEW YORK & SAN DIEGO

Body

BG Titan Group ("BGT"), a leader in infrastructure development projects, and Veea Inc. ("VEEA"), a first-to-market
pioneer in hyperconverged multiaccess networks, incorporating and edge-to-cloud computing and Edge AI, today
announced a strategic partnership aimed at driving broadband inclusion and community development across North
African countries. The parties entered into a Cooperation Agreement earlier this year in support of their joint market
development and network roll-out activities that were initiated in 2023 in other regions. This collaboration extends
the proven strengths of both companies to address the critical need for reliable Internet access in remote and
underserved areas of North Africa through local and regional service providers offering value-added services with a
focus on addressing food security challenges in the region.

Illuminating the Path to Digital Inclusion

In an era where Internet access is the key to the advancement of those who are disadvantaged socially and
economically, BGT and Veea are committed to bringing digital equity to North Africa, while offering a plethora of
solutions to the underserved communities in the region. This partnership will focus on implementing Veea's virtual
Trusted Broadband Access (vTBA) platform, designed to provide cost-effective, secure, high-quality Internet access
and other edge solutions to communities that have traditionally been left behind in the digital revolution.

Veea Edge Platform can extend AI technologies, based on Large Language Models (LLMs) such as OpenAI
ChatGPT, Google Bard, Meta Llama and others, that are rapidly pervading the educational, healthcare and many
other sectors in the urban centers, to the underserved communities cost effectively, which hold even a greater
promise for enhancing the quality of distance learning and training, telehealth, virtual agents for agricultural and first
responders use cases, and many others. Moreover, Edge AI deployed locally in the rural areas brings intelligence
to VeeaHub's Internet of Things (IoT) applications delivered through VeeaHub's embedded IoT gateway, which has
a vast array of use cases such as precision agriculture, water and air quality management, optimization of energy
consumption, public safety, and environmental monitoring.

"Our collaboration goes beyond mere infrastructure deployment," said Aymen Boughanmi, CEO of BGT. "Each
VeeaHub we install is a catalyst for change, a beacon of opportunity in areas long overlooked by technological
progress."

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 4
  BG Titan Group and Veea Inc. Form a Strategic Partnership to Bring Internet Connectivity and Acutely Needed
                            Services to Underserved Communities in North Africa

Empowering Communities with Connectivity

1. Broadband Equity and Inclusion: The partnership aims to drive broadband equity by providing affordable and
accessible Internet service to diverse populations, particularly in rural and underserved areas, ensuring that all
communities have the opportunity to participate in the digital economy. Local ISPs can extend their coverage areas
through deployment of Veea Edge Platform products, which offer seamless and cost-effective connectivity solutions
over cellular-like managed Wi-Fi. This will enable ISPs to extend their services without the heavy investment
typically required for traditional cellular infrastructure, while provisioning edge-managed value-added services for a
range of applications such as:
    •   Remote access to education, healthcare, and training
    •   Regenerative precision agriculture and smart farming
    •   Streaming or cached content for entertainment and gaming
    •   Industrial and enterprise use cases of IoT

2. Enhancing Educational Connectivity: Recognizing the transformative power of education, the partnership will
prioritize Internet connecting for educational institutions in remote areas transforming rural schools into digital
learning hubs. Schools will receive quality, reliable Internet access - enabling students and teachers to utilize online
learning resources real-time or through cached educational content on VeeaHub units locally, while connecting with
the educational centers at all levels of education in urban centers. Distance learning is made more effective with the
application of LLMs by adapting the content to the current cognitive needs of students individually in the smaller
communities.

3. Telehealth and Telemedicine Services: Veea and BGT have been collaborating on the development of telehealth
and telemedicine services for several regions. The use of technology in healthcare delivery can assist healthcare
systems, organizations, and providers in expanding access to and improving the quality, safety, and effectiveness
of rural healthcare. Telehealth can reduce challenges patients encounter, such as transportation issues related to
traveling for specialty care. In rural areas, where access to specialists is limited, LLM-based AI can act as a virtual
consultant, aiding local healthcare professionals in making more accurate and timely decisions. Machine learning
algorithms based on the data collected and processed locally can also assist in early detection of diseases,
pandemics and community health assessments related to environmental pollutants by analyzing patterns in patient
data, enabling proactive and preventive interventions.

4. Addressing Food Safety and Security Challenges: With the world's population outpacing its food production, food
security has become a matter of national security for many countries, especially in North African countries due to
extreme weather events like heat waves, floods, wildfires and severe storms. It is also expected that extreme
hydrological variability will disproportionately impact North Africa, putting further stress on limited water resources.
Veea Edge Platform uniquely offers regional water distribution and irrigation management capabilities along with
precision agriculture solutions that can substantially increase the yield of various crops by enabling data-driven
farming with data from sensors, soil probes, drone and satellite imagery, and micro weather stations along with
deep learning and AI at the edge.

5. Environmental Monitoring and Disaster Response: In a region prone to extreme weather events, data processed
from various sensors in VeeaHub's edge applications can monitor air quality, predict sandstorms, and alert
communities to impending natural disasters. In such scenarios, Veea Edge Platform offers a local communication
network for coordinating emergency responses and saving lives while offering the network coverage and the edge
applications for monitoring, reporting and verification of regional sustainability goals.

This partnership between BGT and Veea is more than a business venture - it is clarion call for change, a testament
to the transformative power of technology when guided by compassion and insight. The partnership intends to
facilitate AI-driven local digital marketplaces with a unique blockchain for secure financial transactions with access
to microloans and digital banking services. Small businesses in rural areas will be able to reach global markets,
artisans can showcase their work internationally, and entrepreneurs can access resources previously out of reach.

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 4
  BG Titan Group and Veea Inc. Form a Strategic Partnership to Bring Internet Connectivity and Acutely Needed
                            Services to Underserved Communities in North Africa

The Parties are engaged in further partnering discussions with ISPs, a number of regional and international
agencies, sovereign funds, and foundations on a range of projects in North Africa.

"Veea Edge Platform is the Swiss Army knife of digital transformation," explains Allen Salmasi, CEO of Veea. "It's
not just about providing internet access. We deploy a mesh network of VeeaHub smart computing devices that
bring the power of edge computing with edge applications, IoT integration, and AI directly to unserved communities
that have been unable to benefit from the rapid technological advancements realized by those with broadband
access."

"This collaboration sets a new standard for the infrastructure development of a profitable realization of social and
public safety services, business productivity and regional sustainability objectives," stated Aymen Boughanmi. "The
rapid technological advancements, supported by a wealth of AI models at the edge, will bridge dreams and
aspirations of those living in unserved and underserved communities to an era of unprecedented opportunity and
growth."

About BG Titan Group

BGT is a global leader in infrastructure development, specializing in large-scale projects that drive economic growth
and community development. With a presence in multiple regions, BGT is committed to delivering innovative
solutions that address critical infrastructure needs.

About Veea Inc.

Veea® makes living and working at the edge simpler and more secure. Veea has unified computing,
communications, storage services and security solutions through fully integrated, easy to deploy and maintain edge
computing products. VeeaHub smart computing hub devices, of the full-stack Veea Edge Platform, integrate
multiprotocol communications with advanced networking for applications running in Secured DockerTM containers
on a networking and computing mesh network with cloud management of devices, applications and value-added
services at the edge. It extends the wide area optical fiber, cellular and satellite networks, with managed Wi-Fi and
IoT devices, sensors and machines, as a direct extension of ISPs' services on local area networks.

The multi-tenant distributed computing platform also enables monitoring, command and control of resources, assets
and the endpoints with advanced networking for IoT applications on a wide area-basis for both the consumer and
the enterprise markets. Veea Developer Portal and development tools provide for rapid development of edge
applications that are more responsive, maintain data privacy, and run more securely at the edge, optionally, with
Edge AI. VeeaHub's virtualized software environment provides a secure service access edge device with Zero
Trust Network Access (ZTNA) for edge services.

Veea Edge platform offers a broad range of solutions cost-effectively for underserved communities, enterprises and
service providers for B2B and B2B2C use cases and value-added services. Veea works with and supplies to
enterprise customers, service providers, channel partners, system integrators, and government agencies. Veea was
formed in 2014 and is headquartered in New York City. For more information, visit veea.com and follow us on X and
LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240711385594/en/


CONTACT: Media Contact:Veea Inc.
James Christopherson
Sterling Communications for Veea

veea@sterlingpr.com

                                                                                                   Page 4 of 4
  BG Titan Group and Veea Inc. Form a Strategic Partnership to Bring Internet Connectivity and Acutely Needed
                            Services to Underserved Communities in North Africa


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 11, 2024


  
