

                                                                                              Page 1 of 12
       House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                         Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....




  House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor,
   HHS & Education & Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I -
                    Department of Labor (Part 2 of 18)
                                                     Targeted News Service
  July 25, 2024 Thursday GENERAL_EDIT_CORRECTION ERROR Document ID 8 Has error Validate old format
                        failed - Input Date Invalid - 00:53: Unparseable date: "00:53" EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 5815 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


WASHINGTON, July 25 -- The House Appropriations Committee issued a report (H.Rpt. 118-585) in explanation of
the accompanying bill (H.R. 9029) making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health And Human
Services, and Education and related agencies for the fiscal ending Sept. 30, 2025. The report was advanced by
Rep. Robert Aderholt, R-Alabama, on July 12, 2024.

***

(Continued from Part 1 of x)

TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024...$13,695,849,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025...14,172,234,000

Committee Recommendation...10,529,223,000

Change from enacted level...-3,166,626,000

Change from budget request... -3,643,011,000

This bill provides $10.5 billion in discretionary budget authority for the Department of Labor, a reduction of 23
percent over fiscal year 2024 enacted level. The Department of Labor comprises $10.5 billion, or 6 percent of the
total 302(b) allocation for this subcommittee.

                                                                                             Page 2 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

Employment and Training Administration

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $10,381,341,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 10,644,060,000

Committee Recommendation... 7,790,577,000

Change from enacted level... -2,590,764,000

Change from budget request... -2,853,483,000

The Employment and Training Administration (ETA) administers Federal job training grant programs and Trade
Adjustment Assistance and provides funding for the administration and oversight of the State Unemployment
Insurance and Employment Service system.

Anonymous Workforce Development Talent Portals.--The Committee directs ETA to publicly release a report within
180 days of enactment of this Act addressing the availability and effectiveness of existing candidate screening
technologies to accelerate a return to work for dislocated workers including those that use candidate matching
algorithms to match candidates based off career desires and cultural fit metrics using artificial intelligence to lower
barriers to employment with a special focus on disadvantaged and underserved communities. The Committee
further directs that such report include recommendations regarding how to make these technologies more widely
available to Department partners.

Competitive Grantmaking Transparency.--The Committee is concerned by the Department of Labor's (DOL) lack of
transparency in the evaluation and awarding of competitive grants. The Committee directs DOL to provide the
Committee with the grant scores for each applicant for competitive funding evaluated, including all aspects of
scoring included in the Funding Opportunity Announcement and in DOL's award of funds.

Prioritizing High Wage Industries.--The Committee is concerned that DOL grant making has been ineffective in
targeting high-wage, high-growth occupations to the detriment of workers and jobseekers. The Committee directs
DOL to prioritize grant applications in industries and occupations that exceed the average earnings of a high school
graduate based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics when
making competitive grant awards and when not inconsistent with the authorizing statute.

Workforce Development in Innovative Skilled Fields.--The Committee recognizes the growing need for highly-skilled
mechanics and technicians in the automotive field to prepare for advances in technology. Therefore, the Committee
encourages DOL, in collaboration with the Department of Education, to work with industry partners, workforce
groups, and nonprofit experts to better support pathways for mechanics and technicians in innovative automotive
fields. Specifically, the Committee encourages the Departments to examine their support for advanced training
programs for established career mechanics and to examine needs related to the operation and repair of
transportation fleets and motorized equipment.

***

TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024...$4,006,421,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025...3,930,587,000

Committee Recommendation...2,083,457,000

Change from enacted level...-1,922,964,000

Change from budget request...-1,847,130,000

                                                                                             Page 3 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

Training and Employment Services provides funding for Federal job training programs authorized primarily by the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014 (WIOA). The Committee recognizes that the House of
Representatives has passed bipartisan legislation to reform and improve the workforce development activities
authorized under the now expired WIOA, but the legislation has yet to be enacted.

Adult Employment and Training Activities

The Committee provides $173,649,000 for adult training, which is the same as the fiscal year 2024 enacted level
and the fiscal year 2025 budget request.

The Committee has included a provision reducing the funding available for fiscal year 2025 by $712,000,000.

Youth Employment and Training Activities

The Committee provides no funding for Youth Employment and Training Activities. The Committee notes the
absence of evidence that the program improves employment and educational outcomes for program participants
and that the Department has failed to implement the program in a manner consistent with the changes enacted in
the now expired WIOA. This program is largely duplicative of the Perkins Career and Technical Education, 21st
Century Community Learning Centers, and Student Support and Academic Enrichment programs. The Committee
further notes that in DOL's FY 2024 operating plan, DOL transferred $970,000 from youth service activities to
support enforcement activities in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities

For Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities, the Committee provides $1,421,412,000. Of the total
provided for Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities, $1,095,553,000 is designated for State grants
that provide core and intensive services, training, and supportive services for dislocated workers. In addition, States
use these funds for rapid response assistance to help workers affected by mass layoffs and plant closures. The
remaining amount is available for the Dislocated Workers National Reserve (DWNR). DWNR supports national
emergency grants, technical assistance, and demonstration projects as authorized by WIOA. The Committee
provides $1,060,000,000 in advanced appropriations for fiscal year 2026.

Within the total for Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities, the Committee provides the following
amounts:

[View table in the link at bottom.]

Dislocated Worker National Reserve Grantee Performance Reporting.--Consistent with the requirements of section
116(b)(2)(A)(i) of WIOA (29 U.S.C. 3141), the Committee directs DOL to require that all grantees receiving awards
funded through DWNR report on the employment, earnings, and credential attainment outcomes of program
participants. The Committee further directs DOL to include program participant outcomes disaggregated by grantee
on its website.

Dislocated Worker National Reserve Disaster Response.--To better ensure DOL is positioned to provide support to
communities affected by natural disasters and given the availability of dedicated funding for Treatment, Recovery,
and Workforce Support within the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the Committee
provides no funding for the purposes of Training and Guidance Letter No. 04-18.

Cybersecurity and Software Development Employment Opportunities.--The Committee remains concerned about
the high, unmet demand for cybersecurity and software development skills in both the Department of Defense
(DOD) and the private sector and DOL's continued lack of attention to these critical and growing industries. Of the
total provided for the DWNR, the Committee directs $25,000,000 for competitive grants to institutions of higher
education as defined in sections 101(a) and 101(b) of the Higher Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1001), State Workforce
Agencies, local workforce development boards, and employer associations for the purpose of a targeted highly
skilled job training grant to help increase training capacity to meet this demand. For purposes of making awards

                                                                                             Page 4 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

under this program, DOL is directed to prioritize applicants located in States with the greatest number of Federally
recognized Tribes and with preexisting DOD partnerships. DOL is directed to provide the Committee a briefing on
this initiative within 120 days of the enactment of this Act.

Career Pathways for Youth.--Multiple career pathways should be available to young people. The Committee
continues to recognize the need for early workforce readiness, employment, and training opportunities that help
youth develop career- specific skills for employability, such as responsibility, organization, time management, and
workplace safety. The Committee provides $10,000,000 to utilize the demonstration grant authority under DWNR
for grants for this program.

Strengthening Community College Training Grants.--From within the amounts provided for DWNR, the Committee
provides $65,000,000 for the Strengthening Community College Training Grants (SCCT). The Committee directs
the Secretary to make individual grants to community colleges of at least $1,500,000, unless grants are awarded in
consortia to community colleges and other eligible institutions of higher education as defined in section 101(a) of
the Higher Education Act. In making grant awards, the Committee directs the Secretary to ensure geographic
diversity among grant recipients, to require a plan for third party evaluations in each individual grant proposal, and
to conduct a national assessment of all grantee proposals once complete. In addition, the Committee directs the
Secretary to ensure grantees incorporate a plan for sustainability of funding under the grant proposal. While grants
may be awarded to a consortium of institutions of higher education, including public and private, nonprofit 4 year
institutions, the Committee directs the Secretary to ensure that the lead grantee in the consortium is a community
college. The Committee directs the Secretary to brief the Committees 7 days in advance of issuing the funding
opportunity announcement and 7 days in advance of announcing awards.

Degree Apprenticeships.--The Committee encourages DOL to support the integration of academic programing and
on-the-job training including paid work experience, related instruction, and industry involvement.

Immersive Technology Education and Training Programs.--The Committee encourages the Department to support
the utilization by grantees of immersive technology such as augmented reality, virtual reality, and mixed reality
tools. The use of immersive technologies for training can be cost-efficient and has been found to expedite training
processes, increase skills retention, and reduce employee turnover. Immersive technologies can also help expand
access to remote training opportunities which is particularly beneficial for individuals living in rural areas or
individuals with disabilities that have different access needs.

Workforce Opportunity for Rural Communities.--Within the funds provided for DWNR, the Committee provides
$55,000,000 for the Workforce Opportunity for Rural Communities (WORC) program, an increase of $5,000,000, to
provide enhanced worker training in the Appalachian, Delta, and Northern Border regions. The Committee directs
DOL to ensure that this funding increase is used to support multigenerational workforce training pipelines
developed in collaboration with institutions of higher education and workforce development system partner agencies
in regions with a WORC program.

The WORC program, in coordination with Delta Regional Authority and Appalachian Regional Commission,
provides essential worker training to promote economic recovery in the Delta and Appalachian regions. It is
important to bolster workforce programs for dislocated workers in these underserved areas. The Committee
strongly encourages continued investment in areas with high rates of unemployment and substance use disorder
impacted by the loss of employment in the coal, energy, and telecommunications industries. The energy industry
has experienced significant employment reductions in the past decade resulting in severe economic hardship
concentrated in specific regions, and sustained investment to transition workers to new industries is needed to
offset the challenging economic conditions.

Native American Programs

For Native American programs, the Committee provides $65,000,000, an increase of $5,000,000, for these
programs.

                                                                                             Page 5 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers

The Committee provides $97,396,000, the same as fiscal year 2024, for this program.

YouthBuild

For the YouthBuild program, the Committee provides $110,000,000, an increase of $5,000,000. WIOA reformed the
YouthBuild program to prioritize the employment and educational outcomes of program participants. While the
Committee recognizes the challenges DOL has had in overseeing grant awards, the Committee notes with concern
that in making awards under this program, DOL has prioritized the administrative capacity of new grantees rather
than their demonstrated efficacy in securing employment and earnings outcomes for young adults.

Reintegration of Ex-Offenders

The Committee provides $60,000,000 for training and reintegration activities for individuals with criminal legal
histories reentering the community and youth offenders.

The Committee directs DOL to ensure grantees establish formal partnerships with employers and that program
participants receive industry-recognized credentials and training in fields that prepare them for successful
reintegration, including ensuring participants receive training and credentials in fields where their record is not a
barrier to entry or continued employment. The Committee also directs DOL to consider the needs of communities
that have recently experienced significant unrest. The Committee also continues to set aside $30,000,000 for
competitive grants to national and regional intermediaries for activities that prepare for employment young adults
with criminal legal histories and youth offenders, with a priority for projects serving high-crime, high-poverty areas.
The Committee is aware that reentry programs are an excellent way to help address workforce challenges,
including those in the advanced manufacturing sector.

Workforce Data Quality Initiative

The Committee provides $6,000,000 for the Workforce Data Quality Initiative.

The Committee notes that Congress has made a significant investment in our workforce development,
postsecondary, and career and technical education systems. As a result of this investment, the number of
credentials in the U.S. continues to rise. However, the Committee is aware that many workers and students may
face challenges in navigating an intricate network of diplomas, licenses, certifications, and badges.

Apprenticeship Programs

The Committee provides $150,000,000 for apprenticeship State grants. The Committee remains concerned with the
modest increases in the number of apprentices generated by considerable and sustained congressional investment.
Of the funding made available, the Committee directs DOL to continue funding State grants at the same level as
fiscal year 2024. The Committee further notes that in fiscal year 2024, DOL transferred $2,850,000 from this
program to support enforcement activities in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

No later than 180 days after the enactment of this Act, the Department is directed to publicly disclose on its website
grantees receiving funding, the number of apprentices attributable to each grantee, and the respective employment
and earnings outcomes of program participants as required under section 116(b)(2)(A)(i) of WIOA. The Committee
further directs DOL to provide a briefing on its implementation of this directive within 90 days of the enactment of
this Act.

Cyber Workforce.--The Committee encourages DOL to continue to prioritize efforts and grants centered on
launching, developing, expanding, and promoting registered apprenticeship programs in cybersecurity, as well as
related collaboration with cyber industry and workforce intermediaries.

                                                                                             Page 6 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

Parents of Dependent Children.--The Committee encourages DOL to provide grantees guidance related to
coordinating with community-based providers of wrap around services to support parents of dependent children
enrolled in registered apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs.

Wastewater Apprenticeships.--The Committee directs DOL to make $20,000,000 in grant funding available to
establish, implement, expand, and administer registered apprenticeship programs consistent with the National
Guideline Standards of Apprenticeship for Water and Wastewater System Operations Specialists to address
nationwide shortages of qualified drinking water and wastewater operators, especially in rural America.

***

JOB CORPS

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $1,760,155,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 1,764,376,000

Committee Recommendation... 1,760,155,000

Change from enacted level...- -

Change from budget request... -4,221,000

Job Corps is a residential education and vocational training program that helps young people ages 16 through 24
improve the quality of their lives through vocational and academic training. The Committee continues to be
concerned with the administration of the Job Corps program, including the underutilization of centers relative to on-
board strength, industry-standard training, and performance incentives.

Additionally, the Committee has concerns with the oversight of job placement contracts. The DOL Office of
Inspector General (OIG) found evidence that contractors helped only 6 percent of the sampled participants find
work. The others found jobs on their own, or there was not enough evidence to show the contractors helped them.
The OIG estimated that nearly $71,000,000 went to contractors for services they could not show they provided.

Job Corps Programing.--The Committee is concerned that the relative lack of success is due to instructional content
that does not reflect job-site best practices or the jobs of today's economy. To better ensure a variety of high-quality
programs are available to Job Corps students, the Committee directs DOL to limit grants, contracts, or cooperative
agreements for purposes of instructional content to no more than $10,000,000.

Maximizing Employer Partnerships.--The Committee encourages DOL to fully leverage section 158(f) of WIOA to
maximize the resources available to campuses to develop these partnerships and meet employers' needs.

Supporting Continuous Campus Improvement.--The Committee encourages DOL to develop a process involving
Job Corps youth service providers for setting achievable campus performance expectations to more effectively
drive continuous improvement in student outcomes.

***

COMMUNITY SERVICE EMPLOYMENT FOR OLDER AMERICANS

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $405,000,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 405,000,000

Committee Recommendation...- -

Change from enacted level... -405,000,000

                                                                                             Page 7 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

Change from budget request... -405,000,000

The Committee provides no funding for the Community Service Employment for Older Americans program, also
known as the Senior Community Service Employment Program (SCSEP). The Committee notes that the last
comprehensive evaluation of SCSEP found that the program led to unsubsidized employment for less than half of
program participants available for employment with worse outcomes for participants with a disability, older adults,
and participants with lower levels of education. Moreover, the largest recipients of SCSEP grants are organizations
based in the Washington, D.C. area rather than direct service providers.

The Committee further notes that DOL transferred $4,050,000, the most it is legally allowed, from the SCSEP
program in fiscal year 2024 to enforcement activities in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

***

FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS AND ALLOWANCES

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $30,700,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 33,900,000

Committee Recommendation... 33,900,000

Change from enacted level... +3,200,000

Change from budget request... - -

The Committee provides no funding for the Trade Adjustment Assistance program in the absence of
reauthorization. Funding included under this section is for the administration of benefits to individuals whose
petitions were approved before July 1, 2022.

***

STATE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICE OPERATIONS

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $4,006,150,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 4,325,429,000

Committee Recommendation... 3,740,150,000

Change from enacted level... -266,000,000

Change from budget request... -585,279,000

The total includes $3,656,084,000 from the Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment
Trust Fund and $84,066,000 from the General Fund of the Treasury. These funds are used to support the
administration of Federal and State unemployment compensation laws.

Unemployment Insurance Compensation

In addition, the Committee provides contingency funding for increased workloads that States may face in the
administration of unemployment insurance (UI). The Committee includes bill language so that, during fiscal year
2025, for every 100,000 increase in the total average weekly insured unemployment (AWIU) above 2,124,000, an
additional $28,600,000 is made available to States from the Unemployment Trust Fund.

If additional funds are provided to States under the AWIU contingency authority, the Department is directed to
provide notification to the Committee of the current projected AWIU level for the fiscal year, when funds were

                                                                                             Page 8 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

provided to States, and how much additional funding was provided in total and to each State within 15 days of
funding being provided. If additional funds are provided on a quarterly basis, the Department is directed to provide
this information to the Committee on a quarterly basis.

The Committee provides $116,000,000 funding for the Reemployment Services and Eligibility Assessments
(RESEA) program. The Committee supports the intent of the program to provide more intensive services to
individuals most likely to use all their unemployment insurance benefits; however, the Committee is concerned that
the program has not achieved the cost savings projected by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and does not
provide additional funding pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act. While CBO once
estimated that such funding generates reductions in UI benefit exhaustion, the Committee notes that single State
evaluations of the program prior to it being made permanent in 2018 produced mixed results with some States
successfully assisting job seekers to work and others failing to do so. While a worthy policy objective, the absence
of a limitation on State administrative expenses and inability to effectively target services to individuals in greatest
need of assistance have undermined the ability to achieve the programmatic savings CBO misguidedly predicted.

Unemployment Insurance Integrity Center of Excellence

The Committee provides $9,000,000 for the continued support of Unemployment Insurance Integrity Center of
Excellence.

Unemployment Insurance National Activities

The Committee provides $18,000,000 for UI national activities. This funding is intended to help modernize
information technology systems and support States in administering the UI program.

Employment Service

The Committee provides $675,052,000 for the Employment Service allotment to States. The Committee also
provides $25,000,000 for Employment Service National Activities.

Disability Employment.--The Committee notes the continued underemployment of individuals with disabilities and
encourages the Department, in consultation with the Social Security Administration, to provide State agencies
responsible for reviewing Work Opportunity Tax Credit certification requests additional information regarding the
Ticket to Work program.

Foreign Labor Certification

The Committee provides $60,528,000 for the Federal administration of the Foreign Labor Certification program and
$23,282,000 for grants to States.

De Minimis Exemption from Adverse Effect Wage Rate.--The Committee recognizes that the House of
Representatives Agriculture Committee's bipartisan Ag Labor Working Group unanimously supported this change in
the wage calculation. The Committee notes that current law requires the highest wage rate to be paid for all work
regardless of how much time a worker may spend doing the higher rate labor. This overly strict calculation is driving
up costs in the H-2A program and acting as a barrier to entry to this critical program for employers and employees.
As such, the Committee recommends that DOL adopt a de minimis exemption that recognizes the real-world
realities of agriculture labor.

Improved Processing of Permanent Labor Certifications and Prevailing Wage Determinations.--The Committee
encourages DOL to ensure immediate processing of Permanent Labor Certification Applications filed through the
Program Electronic Review Management process. Historically, processing took less than six months, but currently
takes well over a year. The Committee further encourages DOL to use existing authority and resources, such as
automating the self-attestation process to speedily approve submissions while flagging potential bad actors for
further investigation, to reduce the processing backlog.

                                                                                             Page 9 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

U.S. Defense Industrial Base.--The Committee notes that DOL has not updated the Schedule A Shortage
Occupation list to include more than two occupations since 2005. The Committee encourages DOL to revise the H-
1B program to better prioritize occupations that are critical to the U.S. defense industrial base.

One-Stop Career Centers/Labor Market Information

The Committee provides $62,653,000 for One-Stop Career Centers and Labor Market Information.

ADVANCES TO THE UNEMPLOYMENT TRUST FUND AND OTHER FUNDS

The Committee recommends such sums as necessary for Advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund and Other
Funds. The funds are made available to accounts authorized under Federal and State unemployment insurance
laws and the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund when the balances in such accounts are insufficient.

***

PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $172,915,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 184,668,000

Committee Recommendation... 172,915,000

Change from enacted level...- -

Change from budget request... -11,753,000

The Committee provides $118,900,000 from the General Fund of the Treasury and $54,015,000 from the
Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

Application and Approval Transparency.--The Committee directs DOL, within 180 days of enactment of this Act, to
publicly release a report on the number of Registered Apprenticeship program applicants, approvals, and the
average time between application submittal and approval. The Committee further directs DOL to disaggregate this
data by applicant industry classification; whether a sponsoring organization is an employer, employer-association,
or an alternative intermediary; and, in the event an application was not approved, the reason for DOL's decision.

Office of Apprenticeship.--The Committee notes that for purposes of performance reporting, DOL attributes the total
number of Registered Apprenticeships to the Apprenticeship Grants program. The Committee has concerns
regarding the expediency and consistency of the Office of Apprenticeship's review of program applications and that
Registered Apprenticeships DOL has attributed to the grant program are due to private sector investment.

Unemployment Insurance Fraud Detection.--For more than 20 years, the DOL's Office of Inspector General has
reported on DOL's challenge to reduce improper payments in the UI program, which has experienced some of the
highest improper payment rates across the Federal government. The Committee is concerned that ETA currently
does not have direct access to State UI claims data, nor does it have the capability to analyze such data, which
would allow it to better identify fraud and other improper payments as well as other trends or emerging issues, such
as timeliness. The Committee notes a report (Report No. 19-23-012-03-315), issued on September 25, 2023, by the
OIG, that recommended the Assistant Secretary of ETA expedite OIG- related amendments to 20 C.F.R. 603.6(a)
to make ongoing disclosures of UI information to DOL-OIG mandatory by expressly adding OIG (including its
agents and contractors) to the list of required disclosures that are necessary for the proper oversight of the UI
program without distinction as to purpose (e.g., audits vs. investigations). The Committee directs DOL to take such
measures as necessary to make ongoing disclosures of UI information available to OIG for purposes of audit of
investigation. The Committee directs DOL to provide a briefing on its implementation of this directive within 90 days
of enactment of this Act.

                                                                                             Page 10 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

***

VETERANS' EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING SERVICE

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $335,341,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 337,301,000

Committee Recommendation... 335,341,000

Change from enacted level...- -

Change from budget request... -1,960,000

The Committee provides $65,500,000 from the General Fund of the Treasury and $269,841,000 from the
Employment Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

The Veterans Employment and Training (VETS) program serves America's veterans and separating service
members by preparing them for meaningful careers, providing employment resources and expertise, and protecting
their employment rights.

Within the total for VETS, the Committee provides the following amounts:

[View table in the link at bottom.]

The Transition Assistance Program (TAP) for separating service members and their spouses provides a mandatory
one-day employment workshop, as well as two 2-day career track workshops on employment preparation and
vocational training, as part of TAP to assist service members' transition to civilian employment. TAP Employment
Workshops are provided on military installations, both domestically and abroad.

The Committee includes new bill language to allow the Jobs for Veterans State Grants program to serve the
surviving spouses of individuals who died while members of the Armed Forces or as a result of a service-connected
disability.

The Committee provides $500,000 to support the Honoring Investments in Recruiting and Employing American
Military Veterans Act of 2017 (HIRE Vets) Medallion program.

Transition Assistance Program.--The Department of Labor plays an important role in educating veterans about
many of their benefits through the Transition Assistance Program, including providing job assistance training,
business ownership courses, financial planning resources, and basic understandings of many other benefits.
Despite these efforts, the Committee is concerned with the growing number of veterans and separating service
members who are unaware of many of the service- connected benefits that are available to them once they
transition back to civilian life. The Committee directs the Department of Labor to include in the fiscal year 2026
congressional justification the estimated cost of modifying the Transition Assistance Program to include a once-a-
year workshop for all service members, regardless of their enlistment status.

***

Employee Benefits Security Administration

SALARIES AND EXPENSES

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $191,100,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 205,663,000

                                                                                             Page 11 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

Committee Recommendation... 181,100,000

Change from enacted level... -10,000,000

Change from budget request... -24,563,000

The Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) assures the security of retirement, health, and other
workplace-related benefits of working Americans.

No Suprises Act Implementation.--The Committee encourages DOL, in collaboration with the Departments of Health
and Human Services and Treasury, to continue conducting random audits of insurers' qualifying payment amount
calculations as mandated by the No Surprises Act. Additionally, the Committee is concerned about delays in
payment following Independent Dispute Resolution determinations, despite the No Surprises Act requiring that
these payments be made within 30 days of the payment determination. The Committee directs DOL to ensure that
Independent Dispute Resolution entities, payers, and providers provide and receive the appropriate information to
complete payments within the required timeframe. The Committee also urges DOL to use all appropriate existing
authorities to achieve timely payment.

Open Investigations.--The Committee is concerned that prolonged investigations conducted by EBSA have placed
tremendous strain on retirement plan sponsors and have negatively impacted amounts available for employee
benefits. In May 2021, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that 17 percent of all investigations
opened in 2017 were still open four years later. Within 180 days of enactment of this Act, the Committee directs
DOL to publicly release a report on the number of investigations older than 48 months outstanding and the
measures taken by DOL to expediently address any violations uncovered by these investigations.

***

Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION FUND

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $512,900,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 514,063,000

Committee Recommendation... 514,063,000

Change from enacted level... +1,163,000

Change from budget request... - -

Congress established the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) to insure Americans' defined-benefit
pension plans. It operates a single-employer program and a multiemployer insurance program, financed through
premiums, investment income, and assets from terminated plans.

Delphi Salaried Plan Employees.--In 2009, the PBGC terminated certain Delphi pension plans, including the Delphi
Retirement Program for Salaried Employees. The Committee notes that some participants of the Delphi salaried
pension plan received less than their full benefit. PBGC paid benefits are subject to statutory limitations. The
Committee also notes ongoing legislative efforts to restore full benefits to the affected participants.

***

(Continues with Part 3 of 18)

***

                                                                                             Page 12 of 12
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title I - Department of Lab....

The      report   is       posted   at:   https://www.congress.gov/congressional-report/118th-congress/house-
report/585/1?s=1&r=5

TARGETED NEWS SERVICE (founded 2004) features non-partisan 'edited journalism' news briefs and information
for news organizations, public policy groups and individuals; as well as 'gathered' public policy information,
including news releases, reports, speeches. For more information contact MYRON STRUCK, editor,
editor@targetednews.com, Springfield, Virginia; 703/304-1897; https://targetednews.com

-1747421


Load-Date: July 25, 2024


  
