

                                                                                            Page 1 of 21
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                       Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....




   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing; "Posture of United States
 Northern Command and United States Southern Command in Review of the
  Defense Authorization Request for FY2025 and the Future Years Defense
  Program."; Testimony by Laura Richardson, Commander, United States
                           Southern Command
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                             March 14, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. SENATE DOCUMENTS
Length: 14090 words

Body


Chairman Reed, Ranking Member Wicker, and distinguished committee members, United States Southern
Command (USSOUTHCOM) celebrated its 60th anniversary this past year. Since 1963, USSOUTHCOM, working
alongside our Allies and partners, has advanced security and stability throughout Latin America and the Caribbean.
For 60 years, the brave men and women of USSOUTHCOM have steadfastly devoted themselves to a cause
greater than their own - an Enduring Promise to the region - that in the face of tyranny, corruption, pandemic, and
natural disasters, the United States of America will always stand beside those who seek and promote peace,
prosperity, and the democratic ideals upon which they flourish.

Today, democracy and democratic values are under attack globally. The People's Republic of China (PRC) and
Russia are strategic competitors who operate without regard for international law or norms. They condone and
perpetrate corruption, disinformation campaigns, cybercrime, and human rights abuses that undermine the existing
democratic political processes of fragile democracies in Latin America and the Caribbean and bolster the
authoritarian rule of regimes in Cuba, Nicaragua, and Venezuela.

Meanwhile, Transnational Criminal Organizations (TCOs) fuel violence and corruption throughout the region,
enriching themselves while undermining democracy and co-opting the legitimate governance functions of our
partners. They traffic drugs, weapons, persons, wildlife, and a range of illicit items, leaving citizen and
environmental insecurity, death, and instability in their wake. TCOs bear direct responsibility for the mass quantities
of drugs that continue to pose a threat to American lives. ni

In response, and as the 2022 National Security Strategy (NSS) outlines, we embrace the opportunity to expand our
partnerships and bolster "economic resilience, democratic stability, and citizen security" throughout the region. nii
Integrated Deterrence means leveraging all instruments of national power - diplomacy, information, military, and
economics - and doing so in concert with Allies, partners, non-governmental organizations, academia, and the
private sector. It's what I call Team Democracy. Together, we must step forward and act with a greater sense of

                                                                                           Page 2 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

urgency to outcompete our adversaries by providing alternatives to PRC-centric solutions. We must remain the
region's most trusted defense and security partner. Our partners need our help, and as one senior leader in the
region recently told me, "When you need a rope to grab, you aren't necessarily looking to see who threw it." We
must be the ones throwing the rope, not our Strategic Competitors.

The NSS recognizes the direct link between this region's prosperity and security to that of our own. niii Over my
two-plus years in command, I have made it my priority to meet our partners where they are - to hear and
understand firsthand the issues and challenges they face. I've learned that presence absolutely matters. If we want
to win, we must be on the field. USSOUTHCOM's presence in the region builds the capacity of our partners, helps
counter our adversaries' malign intent, and contributes to our homeland defense. The many challenges this
hemisphere faces are a Call to Action.

USSOUTHCOM's strategy focuses on three lines of effort: Strengthening Partnerships, Countering Threats, and
Building our Team. We remain committed to coordinating, collaborating, and synchronizing with our Allies, partners,
U.S. Interagency, and Non-Federal Entities to outcompete our Strategic Competitors, defeat the pervasive threats,
and overcome the challenges within the Western Hemisphere.

Expanding Challenges in the Region

Strategic Competition with the People's Republic of China

The United States and the PRC are engaged in geopolitical competition based on opposing views of the value of
the international rules-based order. The PRC, through the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), seeks to supplant the
United States as the world's leading economic and military power.

The PRC understands the importance of economics and the intertwined role of the People's Liberation Army (PLA)
in achieving its Chinese Dream - the PRC reclamation of China's central role in world affairs. In Latin America and
the Caribbean, USSOUTHCOM recognizes the opportunity to collaborate with our partners, build their capacity, and
increase their resiliency to the pervasive challenges and threats they face. Conversely, the PRC is exploiting a
fragile security environment and taking advantage of the region's need for economic investment to gain influence
and advance its malign agenda. The PRC knows that economic power is a prerequisite for global military power
and it is imperative that we view the PRC's economic activities, particularly in the Americas, as connected to their
global political and military desires.

With a population of 1.4 billion people, the PRC must look beyond their shores for the resources to sustain both its
large populace and consolidation of power at home. Latin America and the Caribbean offer such resources. The
PRC is laying claim to the abundant food, water, and critical earth minerals found in the Western Hemisphere. This
region is home to 31 percent of the planet's fresh-water resources and by 2028 will account for 25 percent of global
agriculture and fisheries exports. niv, nv The PRC has not extended itself into the Western Hemisphere to offer win-
win, high-quality investment - they have come to extract, and they intend to gain access and influence by employing
the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a "natural extension of the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road." nvi, nvii

Twenty-two of the 31 countries in the SOUTHCOM Area of Responsibility (AOR) are now signatories to the BRI,
which the PRC portrays as expanding economic, financial, and trade opportunities. The PRC has now surpassed
the United States as South America's top trading partner and is Central America's second-largest trading partner.
nviii In 2002, PRC trade with Latin America and the Caribbean was just $18 million; in 2022 it ballooned to $450
billion. That number is expected to increase to $700 billion by 2035. nix

But it's not just access to resources that the PRC seeks with its investments; it's the furtherance of political and
military objectives to increase isolation of Taiwan. Globally, only 12 countries recognize Taiwan, seven of which are
in my AOR. PRC pressure to abandon existing recognition is mounting and is often a precondition for investment.
Last year, Honduras, home to Joint Task Force-Bravo, cut diplomatic ties with Taiwan and signed onto the BRI.

                                                                                           Page 3 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

The PRC is playing the "long game" with its development of dual-use sites and facilities throughout the region. The
PRC messages its investments as peaceful, but in fact, many serve as points of future multi-domain access for the
PLA and strategic naval chokepoints. These investments include critical infrastructure such as deep-water ports,
cyber facilities, and space facilities. In Panama, PRC-controlled State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) continue to bid on
projects related to the Panama Canal - a global strategic chokepoint. Meanwhile, in Argentina, another SOE is
attempting to secure the rights to build dual-use maritime installations, which would support sustainment and power
projection in proximity to the Strait of Magellan, the Drake Passage, and Antarctica. This would dramatically
improve the PRC's ability to access the Antarctic region and its fisheries and impact U.S. strategic mobility to an
area reserved for peace and science. nx

The PRC blueprint for development and subsequent dual-use of deep-water ports elsewhere in the world is already
a matter of public record. nxi, nxii Here in the Western Hemisphere, a Chinese SOE will be the first with majority
ownership and control of a country's port infrastructure - the future $3.6 billion mega-port in Chancay, Peru. The
port will serve as a PRC-proclaimed "gateway from South America to Asia." nxiii

To shape positive perceptions of both the PRC and the CCP, Beijing pours billions of dollars into foreign information
operations. nxiv Their approach includes information manipulation using "propaganda and censorship, promoting
digital authoritarianism, exploiting international organizations and bilateral partnerships, pairing cooptation and
pressure, and exercising control of Chinese-language media." nxv A recent Department of State special report on
the PRC notes, "the PRC suppresses critical information that contradicts its desired narratives on issues such as
Taiwan, its human rights practices, the South China Sea, its domestic economy, and international economic
engagement." nxvi

Partnering with the PRC and agreeing to the terms of their funded projects leaves some of our partners saddled
with debt, exorbitant interest rates, and poorly constructed infrastructure that worsens already dire environmental
crises, as is the case with the hydro-power station at the Coca Codo Dam in Ecuador. Some geologists argue that
the dam has "so disrupted the Coca River's natural flow and accumulation of sediments" that it accelerated an
erosion process that would normally take thousands of years into five. nxvii

The PRC's resource extraction is not limited to land. Each year, the PRC subsidizes a distant water fishing fleet of
about 200 to 600 vessels operating near the Galapagos and other coastal nations' Exclusive Economic Zones in
South America, often engaging in illegal, unregulated, and unreported (IUU) fishing practices. This fleet often
exhibits concerning fishing behavior, with some vessels disabling AIS transponders. Illegal fishing in the western
hemisphere alone comes at a cost of approximately $2.7 billion annually in lost revenue. nxviii, nxix, nxx But it's not
just financial cost at play - it's opportunity cost. Our partners' constrained maritime resources are being diverted
away from fully engaging in other critical missions to take a leading role in combating these environmental and
economic crimes.

The PRC has also taken a keen interest in expanding its access and control of the space domain, viewing it as the
"ultimate high ground." nxxi There are at least 10 PRC-linked space facilities across five countries in the region, the
most PRC space-enabling infrastructure outside mainland China. Despite its public stance against the
weaponization of space, the PLA continues to invest and improve its military space capabilities, including a deep
space station in Argentina, providing the PLA with global space tracking and surveillance capabilities. These space-
based capabilities could translate into global military capabilities "that could support the monitoring, tracking, and
targeting of our forces" and affect "conventional and nuclear targeting, ground-air-sea operations, precision
conventional strike capacities, and missile defense." nxxii, nxxiii

As Latin American and Caribbean governments and their telecommunication industries seek faster, cheaper, and
more inclusive communication coverage, PRC SOEs or associated entities, such as Huawei and ZTE, penetrate
virtually every country through a mixture of funding, equipping, or servicing core and radio access networks. Some
partners have privately told us about 'buyer's remorse' for allowing Huawei to set up 5G networks in their countries
due to increased potential for PRC exploitation. Huawei has built and continues to build a robust

                                                                                           Page 4 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

The PRC's control over Huawei, and its funding related to the deployment of telecommunication networks,
threatens our partners' national assets, sovereignty, and freedoms. nxxiv Huawei's 5G infrastructure could contain
backdoors that allow the Chinese government to collect and centralize massive quantities of data and give Beijing
the necessary access to attack communications networks and public utilities. Ultimately, this could provide the PRC
with unrestricted access to information and other capabilities that can be used for espionage, as coercive levers to
gain unfair advantage, and to exert malign influence to achieve its goals.

Huawei routinely violates local laws in countries where it operates. The U.S. Justice Department has obtained an
indictment against Huawei charging fraud, money laundering, violating U.S. sanctions against Iran, and stealing
trade secrets from its U.S. business partner, T-Mobile. Huawei was linked to the theft of intellectual property from
Cisco, and U.S. startup CNEX sued Huawei and its deputy chairman alleging conspiracy to steal trade secrets.
Huawei's opaque operational nature and "mysterious ownership structure, contribute to concerns about the
company's operations and intentions." nxxv As Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Wray has publicly stated,
the PRC is the greatest espionage threat that democracy has ever faced. nxxvi The scale of its informational theft is
unprecedented. nxxvii

Russia as an Acute Threat

It has been two years since Russia's unprovoked and unlawful invasion of Ukraine. Vladimir Putin's assault has
"disrupted global supply chains, agricultural production, and energy resources," which has slowed Latin America
and the Caribbean's recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. nxxviii Putin's authoritarian hand serves as a model for
and bolsters the authoritarian regimes of Cuba, Nicaragua, and Venezuela.

Within the AOR, Russia continues its attempts to frustrate United States goals and interests, undermining
democratic institutions and the rule of law, and props up problematic regimes in exchange for strategic access and
resources. nxxix Moscow is working hard to disrupt relations between the United States and our partners to extoll
the virtues of a multipolar world. nxxx To do so, Russia employs a host of malign activities within the gray zone,
including malicious cyber activities, disinformation campaigns, and periodic high-level visits and military force
projection. nxxxi, nxxxii

Moscow and affiliated cybercriminal groups seek to destabilize democracies by targeting public institutions and
sensitive government frameworks, disrupting critical infrastructure, and stealing information. nxxxiii Recently, a
Partner Nation fell victim to such an attack which targeted dozens of institutions, including a key ministry.

Russian disinformation in the region is increasing in scope since Russia invaded Ukraine. nxxxiv The Russian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Defense, think tanks, and the oligarchy guide the narratives employed by
propagandists at state-controlled and regional media providers such as Actualidad RT, Sputnik Mundo, and
Telesur. These media outlets spread anti-U.S. messaging across traditional and social media platforms to their
millions of followers in Latin America and around the world. nxxxv Their false media narratives commonly blame the
United States for creating a global food crisis and supporting Nazism in Ukraine, while portraying the United States
as a greedy and imperialist state concerned with maximum extraction of the continent's resources. nxxxvi

At the same time, Russia has been leveraging its diplomats and periodic military force projection to maintain and
gain regional influence. Last April, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov visited Brazil, Cuba, Nicaragua, and
Venezuela. The trip's purpose was to increase cooperation with the countries it views as critical to creating a
multipolar world where Russia, China, and others act as a counterbalance to the United States. nxxxvii Lavrov
again visited Brazil, Cuba, and Venezuela at the end of February 2024. In January 2023, the Russian frigate
Admiral Gorshkov tested its strike capabilities in the Western Atlantic Ocean, running a computer simulation on
hypersonic missiles. nxxxviii Then, in July, the Russian Navy training ship Perekop docked in Cuba for three days
before making stops in Nicaragua and Venezuela. nxxxix Russian presence aims to prop up dictatorial regimes who
share a common worldview, while expanding authoritarian influence in the Western Hemisphere.

Transnational Criminal Organizations

                                                                                           Page 5 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

TCOs remain the primary obstacle to lasting security and stability. Moreover, TCOs imperil the security of the
American people and the values at the heart of this hemisphere's democracies. USSOUTHCOM estimates that
approximately 200 TCOs and four terrorist groups are operating in the region, including Mexican cartels such as the
Jalisco New Generation Cartel and the Sinaloa Cartel. Through a combination of corruption and intimidation, and
outright attacks on government officials and institutions, TCOs undermine the rule of law and disrupt legitimate
governmental functions.

The National Liberation Army (ELN), Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia-People's Army (FARC-EP), FARC-
Segunda Marquetalia (FARC-SM), and Shining Path (SL) are designated terrorist organizations that use criminal
activities to fill their coffers. TCOs traffic in weapons, drugs, persons, wildlife, gold and minerals, commodities, and
counterfeit goods, resulting in earnings of approximately $330 billion annually, five times the combined military
budgets of every nation in Latin America and the Caribbean. Consequently, TCOs are often better funded,
equipped, and manned than the security forces trying to fight them. They are brutal and vicious, setting fire to public
transportation, murdering innocent civilians, and exerting control over significant swaths of urban and rural
territories. In response, regional militaries are increasingly called on to respond to this threat, further eroding
democratic norms, which in turn opens space that the PRC and Russia can exploit.

Mexican criminal groups like the Sinaloa Cartel and Cartel Jalisco Nueva Generacion work with primarily PRC-
based companies and brokers to source fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, and pre-precursors, which are then mixed
into both cocaine and counterfeit prescription medications and trafficked into the United States, Mexico, Central
America, and South America. nxl The result is the deadliest drug epidemic our country has ever faced and an
ongoing economic crisis throughout our neighborhoods. TCOs are killing hundreds of thousands of Americans and
draining valuable resources from struggling communities and states. nxli, nxlii

Iran

Iran seeks to increase its ideological influence in Latin America with the support of terrorist organizations such as
Hizballah. nxliii Using Spanish-language media, social networks, and satellites, Iran's National Ministry of
Intelligence and Security is engaging in large-scale psychological warfare to promote its interests in attacking the
West and Latin America. nxliv

Moreover, "Iran has moved from categorizing and tracking targets for possible attacks...to launching plans,
including the attempted assassination of Israeli businessmen in Colombia." nxlv Hizballah continues to leverage the
Shi'a diaspora in Latin America to disrupt Western objectives and surveil against enemies of the Iranian regime, to
include targets with Jewish heritage.

Additionally, this past year Iran completed a naval deployment that circumnavigated the globe and included a port
call in Brazil. Iran also delivered coastal defense missile patrol boats to Venezuela.

Regional Humanitarian Crises

Irregular Migration. TCO-driven violence, economic desperation, political instability, and climate change, are just a
few of the cross-cutting challenges that are driving unprecedented levels of irregular migration throughout the
region. A significant number of these migrants are from Venezuela, Ecuador, and Haiti, all home to both security
and interconnected economic challenges that drive migration. Additionally, a growing number of Chinese migrants
are moving through the AOR to the United States. In Fiscal Year (FY) 2023, U.S. Customs and Border Protection
(CBP) encountered approximately 24,314 Chinese migrants along the Southwest Border, a 10-fold increase of
migration from the previous fiscal year.

Panama's Darien Region is a likely route to the north for those whose travel originates in South America. Among
the dense jungle, mountains, and swamps, TCOs, such as the Gulf Clan and Tren de Aragua, facilitate smuggling
operations, exploiting the most vulnerable. Migrants are subjected to extortion, robbery, sexual violence, wild
animals, and disease, among so many other dangers. Nevertheless, hundreds of thousands are willing to brave

                                                                                           Page 6 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

these conditions, and the number of people passing through the Darien has more than doubled to 505,674 from FY
2022 to FY 2023.

Haiti. Nowhere is more indicative of the destabilizing effect of criminal groups than Haiti, where gang violence has
increased, overwhelming the capacity of the Haitian National Police. Gangs recently coordinated attacks, control an
estimated eighty percent of Port-au-Prince and have a significant presence beyond it, dictating many aspects of
daily life under their control, including the ability to move freely, seek medical assistance, or attend school. nxlvi
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres recently cited a report that recorded the brutality of these
gangs, with 3,758 intentional killings between October 2022 and September 2023. nxlvii, nxlviii

Exposure to severe disease, lack of food, potable water, and sanitation services are just a few of the heartbreaking
challenges resulting in the internal displacement of 200,000 Haitians. nxlix Moreover, Haiti's geographic location
leaves 96 percent of its citizens on the precipice of disaster - from earthquakes and hurricanes to flooding and
mudslides. nl Government agencies lack the capacity and capability to mitigate and then subsequently respond to
frequent emergencies effectively. Political instability, unprecedented levels of violence, and tragic poverty have
resulted in increased irregular migration, with more than 70,000 Haitians encountered at the United States
Southwest Border in FY 2023.

USSOUTHCOM continues to support U.S. Government efforts promoting deployment of a United Nations Security
Council-authorized Multinational Security Support (MSS) mission in Haiti. The MSS mission is to augment and build
the capacity of the Haitian National Police to maintain security and counter gangs.

Nicaragua. The Ortega regime maintains an iron grip upon Nicaragua's governmental institutions and its people as
it continues to engage in repressive attacks on human rights, fundamental freedoms, and civil society. nli Aligned in
shared values and interests, Nicaragua and the PRC remain engaged in negotiations on a free trade agreement
with PRC Foreign Minister Wang Yi. nlii Additionally, the Ortega Regime openly supports Russia's illegal invasion of
Ukraine and was the sole Latin American country to participate in 2022's Russian Vostok war games. nliii

Cuba. Food, medicine, fuel, electricity, and political freedom remain scarce in Cuba. President Miguel Diaz-Canel
and his government continue to repress and disproportionately punish all forms of public dissent. According to
reports, during the past two years, more than 400,000 Cubans have fled the island amid an economic crisis. nliv
Conditions on the island have become so difficult that Russian exploiters have even lured Cuban citizens to join the
Russian military in its war against Ukraine. nlv

Both the PRC and Russia are taking advantage of the existing conditions within Cuba to deepen cooperation across
all elements of national power, with President Diaz-Canel commenting during last summer's BRICS Summit in
South Africa that Cuban-Chinese relations were at an all-time high. nlvi On 6 November, President Xi Jinping met
with Cuban Vice Prime Minister Manuel Marrero Cruz in Beijing, affirming China's willingness to support Cuba's
defense of national sovereignty. Havana continues to assert its willingness to carry out the BRI and strengthen ties.
We remain focused on monitoring and assessing the PRC's and Russia's malign activities on the island, including
defense cooperation, military deployments, intelligence collection, or any other activity that poses a threat to the
United States - especially since these activities are occurring just 90 miles from our shores.

Venezuela. Nicolas Maduro presides over an unmitigated humanitarian disaster in Venezuela, as his stewardship
of Venezuela's economy has worsened living conditions for desperate Venezuelans who have limited access to
food, water, and fuel, spurring many to migrate. nlvii Recently, the authoritarian regime held a referendum to "claim
sovereignty over the oil- and mineral-rich" Essequibo region in Guyana. nlviii We are monitoring this issue and
support a diplomatic resolution. Maduro and his representatives have done little to stop drug trafficking and human
rights abuses. nlix Extrajudicial killings, forced disappearances, torture, and prosecution without due process have
been undertaken by the security forces in Venezuela. nlx, nlxi Maduro representatives are responsible for the worst
ecocide in the history of Venezuela. nlxii, nlxiii Consequently, record numbers of Venezuelans are leaving their
homes in search of a better life - more than 7.7 million Venezuelans have fled their country since 2013.

                                                                                           Page 7 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

Venezuelans are now the primary migrant nationality from the SOUTHCOM AOR encountered at the United States
Southwest Border. nlxiv

Levers: Overcoming Threats and Challenges in the AOR

Today's complex threats and challenges span all domains and the spectrum of conflict. To counter and overcome
them, we need an integrated, whole-of-society approach that leverages all instruments of national power. The
threats presented by the PRC today are substantially different than those presented by the Soviet Union during the
Cold War, where competition centered on military capability. nlxv Specifically, in Latin America and the Caribbean,
the Communist vision offered by the Soviets and their regional acolytes provided little to the populace. nlxvi Today's
PRC offers our partners the veneer of modernization - airports, railways, deep-water ports, internet access,
inexpensive technology, and available financing expeditiously. To counter, we must expand beyond our traditional
mechanisms and increase American economic investment in the region.

After more than two years in command, I am convinced that Economic Security is National Security, and many of
the challenges in the Americas are directly tied to a lack of economic investment and opportunity. USSOUTHCOM's
support of initiatives like the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity will mobilize high-standard investment in
this hemisphere into critical infrastructure and supply chains to expand economic prosperity and opportunity. U.S.
investment can enable regional competitiveness, bring transparency to the construction of critical infrastructure, and
provide alternatives to PRC SOEs within our hemisphere.

Moreover, with support from the U.S. Government, U.S. companies need to raise their profiles in the region and
improve the branding of Team USA, both in messaging and advertisement of what good quality U.S. investment
brings to the Americas. U.S. companies employ international environmental and labor standards, have strong anti-
corruption measures, invest in local communities, ensure the safety of their locally hired workers, and adhere to
principles of transparency - a stark contrast to the PRC and the disinformation narratives perpetuated by Russia.
Additionally, more legitimate job opportunities for local populations diminish TCO support and reduce opportunities
for corrupt practices. Economic Security is National Security - as it drives global influence, prosperity, and
reinforces other vital elements of national power.

USSOUTHCOM, with our Allies, partners, U.S. Interagency, non-governmental organizations, and the private
sector, seamlessly campaigns across all domains to overcome the many challenges to the Western Hemisphere.
The safety of our homeland is directly linked to the resilience, stability, and security of our Latin American and
Caribbean partners. As such, USSOUTHCOM is laser-focused on Strengthening Partnerships and Countering
Threats.

Strengthening Partnerships and Countering Threats

Strengthening partnerships means building trust and being present. Trust is an investment and cannot be surged.
nlxvii Our alliances and partnerships are our greatest strategic advantage. They are directly connected to the
region's collective ability to meet its evolving security challenges. In the face of our adversaries' pervasive malign
influence, we continue to substantively engage with our Partner Nations to build trust while maintaining our status
as their preferred partner. USSOUTHCOM does this through a pre-existing foundation of trust, mutual respect for
democratic values, and shared interests in cooperation and interoperability. Our engagements, presence, and
policies remain flexible, consistent, and responsive as we campaign in strategic competition. Putting Integrated
Deterrence into action, USSOUTHCOM works by, with, and through our Allies and partners to improve Partner
Nation capability, capacity, and resilience. Every day we leverage Security Cooperation exercises, training, and
education activities to build trust.

Concurrently, cross-cutting threats and transboundary challenges put at risk sovereignty, democratic values, and
security. USSOUTHCOM aggressively counters threats through campaigning and integrating deliberate multi-
domain operations and exercises alongside our Allies and partners. Team Democracy can deny our adversaries the
ability to expand their presence and influence and increases regional stability, security, and prosperity.

                                                                                           Page 8 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

Security Cooperation. In a resource-constrained theater, USSOUTHCOM continues to work with the U.S.
Interagency and Allies to maximize efforts in exchanges, training, equipping, and exercises to build Partner Nation
capabilities or capacities and to advance regional Partner Nation interoperability. Building Partner Capacity
Programs are the main lever for partner engagement and provide meaningful opportunities to strengthen
partnerships and develop military capabilities. In FY 2024, we have planned 1,014 activities by, with, and through
our regional partners. We appreciate congressional support of this critical program and will continue maximizing all
resources to build our willing partners' capacity.

The Security Cooperation funds provided by Congress are critical to delivering equipment and capabilities to our
partners, and these resources have significantly accelerated and expanded the capacity of our efforts to counter the
PRC, Russia, and TCOs. Key examples are the contracts awarded to Ecuador and Peru for King Air Maritime Patrol
Aircraft. These aircraft will significantly enhance the Maritime Domain Awareness capability by illuminating the
current threat of IUU fishing and monitoring and detecting illicit maritime movements.

Department of State Security Assistance. Foreign Military Sales (FMS), Foreign Military Financing (FMF), and
Excess Defense Articles (EDA) programs increase interoperability with our partners while supporting their security
requirements. These programs are critical tools to counterbalance PRC military engagement in the region. In
December 2023, the Chilean Air Force signed an FMS letter of acceptance for the modernization of their F-16 fleet.
This modernization will increase the lifespan of their fleet by 15 years, provide NATO interoperability, and continue
to provide access, presence, and influence with a critical partner. Our partners increasingly face a choice between
seeking equipment and training from the U.S. or our Strategic Competitors and other malign actors. The superior
goods and strong relationships built by our programs enable us to meet the needs of our partners in a timely
manner while outcompeting our adversaries.

USSOUTHCOM executes the Department of State's International Military Education and Training (IMET) program
that provides professional military education emphasizing professionalism and democratic values to personnel from
28 countries in the region. In FY 2023, our IMET allocation to our Partner Nations provided professional military
education for approximately 800 international students in U.S. schools. This opportunity to influence our partners is
important, as the personnel attending these schools often become senior military leaders in their countries.
Currently, three ministers of defense and 13 chiefs of defense have attended IMET-funded courses at U.S
institutions.

Additionally, regional educational institutions such as the William J. Perry Center for Hemispheric Defense Studies
and the Inter-American Defense College provide executive-level education and help cultivate lasting relationships,
improve regional understanding of U.S. policy, and ensure the sustainability of U.S. Security Cooperation
investments. These institutions' influential alumni networks foster whole-of-hemisphere collaboration in resolving
top security and defense challenges in the Americas.

Joint Exercise Program. Our Joint Exercise Program continues to provide an outsized return on investment to
strengthen partnerships and interoperability among our Allies, partners, U.S. Interagency, and Non-Federal Entities.
Over 13,500 participants from 36 Nations were integrated into our exercises this past year. I traveled to Colombia in
July for the 64th annual UNITAS, the world's longest-running multinational maritime exercise. There, I saw firsthand
how 7,000 people from 27 countries across the globe collaborate, innovate, and experiment with emerging
technologies and naval concepts - including the integration and management of unmanned systems - to deter
Malign State Actors and foster security and stability across the global commons. Honing our warfighting skills has
primacy in all we do.

Last August, Australia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States put Integrated
Deterrence into action during Exercise SOUTHERN STAR, a multi-lateral special operations exercise hosted
throughout Chile that focused on countering threat networks in the AOR. Through subject matter expert exchanges,
tactical operations, and command and control exercises, over 1,100 Chilean, 500 U.S. service members, and
dozens of Allies and partners came together to enable global collaboration and interoperability while building Allied
and Partner Nation capacity to conduct contingency operations.

                                                                                           Page 9 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

USSOUTHCOM's exercises CENTAM GUARDIAN and TRADEWINDS focus on countering TCOs and bringing
together the Department of State, Department of Justice, and the Department of Homeland Security, along with our
Allied and Partner Nation military and security forces, to enhance readiness, domain awareness, interoperability,
and intelligence and information sharing.

Through training on Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Response (HA/DR), Human Rights, and Women,
Peace, and Security (WPS), these exercises not only provide year-long engagement opportunities throughout the
AOR but also serve as forums to enhance force professionalism and underscore democratic principles.

Theater Maintenance Partnership Initiative. The Theater Maintenance Partnership Initiative (TMPI) builds partner
capacity from the tactical level (operator maintenance) to the operational level (Ministry of Defense logistics and
sustainment functions). Maintenance and sustainment are hard for our U.S. military, and TMPI invests in our
partners by teaching and building a culture of maintenance readiness. TMPI is a seven-year program and will build
capacity through education by establishing nine Maintenance Centers of Excellence in the AOR. It will also address
maintenance requirements of U.S.-provided defense articles our partners utilize. Fostering an integrated approach
to logistics, TMPI will improve readiness and readiness reporting so that Allied and Partner Nations can visualize
materiel readiness, apply resources, communicate challenges, and request needed support. Additionally,
USSOUTHCOM is working to create Multinational Logistics Courses to promote NATO standardization, Life Cycle
Management, and the conduct of logistics at the Operational and Strategic levels. TMPI will enhance
interoperability, self-sufficiency, and resiliency among Allies and partners, leading to sustainable readiness
improvements that increase regional stability.

CONTINUING PROMISE. This past year, from August to September, the USNS BURLINGTON and 120
crewmembers embarked upon a 52-day humanitarian assistance (HA), readiness building, and goodwill mission
that touched Colombia, Grenada, Panama, and Trinidad and Tobago. This evolution marked the 13th
CONTINUING PROMISE mission to the AOR since 2007 - a joint military and civilian effort that provides
expeditionary medical care, veterinary care, training, and subject matter expert exchanges with our Partner Nations.
While CONTINUING PROMISE missions typically feature the USNS COMFORT hospital ship, which is currently
undergoing maintenance, the mission relied on the USNS BURLINGTON as the deploying platform. The "fast,
flexible, and maneuverable" ship served as a proof of concept for transporting personnel and equipment in support
of regional disaster relief and humanitarian operations. nlxviii

During the mission, CONTINUING PROMISE personnel delivered medical care to 6,100 patients, administered 950
vaccinations, dispensed 8,750 prescriptions, and repaired $500,000 worth of Partner Nation medical equipment.
Additionally, U.S. Navy Seabees led construction and engineering projects benefiting schools, hospitals, and local
communities. The CONTINUING PROMISE mission is a critical soft power asset that creates and sustains an
immeasurable amount of goodwill from our partners and their people, offsetting PRC influence in the region while
building the legitimacy and capacity of our Partner Nations.

Key Leader Engagements. The importance of maintaining and cultivating relationships with senior leaders within my
AOR cannot be overstated. Since taking command in October 2021, I have been to the region 48 times, visited 17
countries, and conducted over 150 Key Leader Engagements with Allied and Partner Nation ministers and chiefs of
defense. Additionally, I have met with 17 heads of state, three vice presidents, and three prime ministers. These
engagements and the enduring Congressional and Staff Delegations to the region assist in establishing and
successfully executing our shared security objectives while generating mutual trust and understanding. Moreover,
they reinforce diplomacy and U.S. Interagency initiatives. After many discussions with the region's leaders, it
remains apparent that our partners need our assistance in combatting their many challenges.

U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) continues to provide vital support to
the USSOUTHCOM AOR by executing an extremely diverse program that not only builds infrastructure and
capacity, but also ensures that considerations for environmental sustainability, climate resiliency, and at-risk
indigenous populations, are factored into their projects. Wherever we have a USACE effort, we are facilitating
presence and access. USACE currently has activities in 17 countries within the AOR and has some form of full-time

                                                                                          Page 10 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

presence in eight of them. For example, they are managing large construction efforts in Colombia and Peru,
providing humanitarian assistance projects in Guatemala and Belize, and executing technical assistance in
agreements with the Dominican Republic, Brazil and Ecuador. USACE builds projects in support of our exercises,
incorporates work with Allies and the U.S. Interagency, executes exchanges with partners having complex
engineering challenges, and works to select contractors internal to that country or region to enable investment in
the local economy. The quality work and the transparent nature in which they do business are providingworks to
select contractors internal to that country or region to enable investment in the local economy. The quality work and
the transparent nature in which they do business are providingworks to select contractors internal to that country or
region to enable investment in the local economy. The quality work and the transparent nature in which they do
business are providing

National Guard State Partnership Program. 2023 marked the 30th anniversary of the State Partnership Program
and 30 years of the National Guard assisting our Partner Nations' military and security forces to build capacity and
meet ever-evolving security challenges. USSOUTHCOM has the largest State Partnership Program of all the
Combatant Commands, spanning 30 countries. Since 2010 our program has completed 3,629 events, with 426
events completed in FY 2023 and another 328 planned for FY 2024. Improving regional interoperability and the
readiness of both Partner Nations and U.S. forces to respond to crises and threats, the State Partnership Program
is instrumental in the conduct and success of not only our operations, but also our enduring relationships
throughout the region.

Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Response. Regional geography and climate change leave our Partner
Nations vulnerable to extreme weather events and natural disasters. Before, during, and after a catastrophe, we
stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our partners to provide assistance. USSOUTHCOM engages regularly with our
Partner Nations, encouraging and assisting them to take the necessary steps toward preparedness, mitigation, and
resiliency. In FY 2023, USSOUTHCOM completed 256 HA and three Humanitarian Mine Action (HMA) projects in
29 countries.

HA activities address the basic needs of civilian populations and build partner capacity by improving Partner Nation
disaster preparedness and risk reduction, health, education, basic infrastructure, and HMA activities. Over the last
year, USSOUTHCOM planned and conducted 25 medical civic-action projects, constructed or renovated nine
medical and dental clinics and 14 schools, executed 18 projects to provide potable water to towns and villages, and
constructed and equipped four Emergency Operations Centers/Disaster Relief Warehouses. Moreover, we
conducted 22 projects to provide local firefighters with equipment, radios, and personal protective equipment during
the outbreak of wildland forest fires in Chile. Of note, USSOUTHCOM conducted 18 projects to support the
governments of Colombia and Panama in their efforts to provide humanitarian services to mitigate the suffering of
migrants in the Darien region. These projects demonstrate our commitment to building Partner Nation capacity and
meeting humanitarian needs, while simultaneously increasing the United States' access, visibility, and influence in a
time of strategic competition throughout the region.

Countering PRC Malign Efforts. The PRC is America's pacing threat; countering their aggression and malign
influence requires a whole-of-society approach. USSOUTHCOM continues to coordinate with non-governmental
organizations, the private sector, academia, and the U.S. Interagency, including both the Department of State and
the Department of Commerce, to source U.S. and Allied solutions as alternatives to PRC offerings in critical
infrastructure, cyber, and telecommunications. By methodically identifying and synchronizing separate initiatives,
from building cyber capability to exposing PRC malign activities, we can strengthen critical infrastructure to improve
our collective ability to operate in the face of the PRC's multi-domain threats.

The PRC is working overtime to expand its network of port access and space infrastructure. As such, we remain
focused on building our relationships and interoperability with our partners and Allies through sustained Security
Cooperation engagement and investment. Moreover, we continue to illuminate and expose the malign intent and
dual-use nature of PRC infrastructure and space sites. Information sharing with our partners paints a vibrant portrait
of the PRC's past, present, and future steps to undercut our partners' sovereignty while expanding theirs. Armed

                                                                                          Page 11 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

with the facts and U.S. and Allied investment alternatives, our partners are better able to make informed decisions
regarding engagement with the PRC.

We will WIN this strategic competition by emphasizing and seizing upon our strengths. A global network of Allies
and partners guided by democratic values and principles gives the United States an unrivaled advantage over the
PRC. We continue to campaign across all domains and the conflict spectrum while instituting Integrated Deterrence
into all our activities, operations, and investments. By doing so, USSOUTHCOM demonstrates its commitment to
the region, forges stronger partnerships, and enhances regional resilience, stability, and security across the
Western Hemisphere.

Countering Russian Malign Influence. We remain postured for competition with Russia through the coordination and
application of information-related capabilities. Russian malign activities are ever present, and the associated fallout
continues to plague the region. USSOUTHCOM's approach empowers our partners and exposes Russian
disinformation and malign activity to limit its reach and effectiveness.

Our Allies and partners support efforts that impose costs on Russia, and this past year, we have successfully
collaborated with partners to counter Russian malign activities occurring in the information environment.
Additionally, we continue to work with our partners to exchange Soviet-era equipment for newer NATO-
interoperable, U.S.-made equipment in the future. We must continue to coordinate and collaborate expeditiously
with our partners, especially when assisting them in replacing antiquated equipment and maintaining operational
readiness. The stakes are too high; we cannot allow Strategic Competitors or other malign actors to fulfill the needs
of our partners due to self-imposed inefficiency.

Countering TCOs. Utilizing a whole-of-government effort, Joint Interagency Task Force-South (JIATF-South)
monitors both the air and maritime domains in our region to detect deadly drugs and contraband headed toward the
shores of the United States. In FY 2023, this statutorily directed mission saved 3,030 American lives and resulted in
the disruption of 361 illegal smuggling events, including the disruption of almost 308 metric tons of cocaine and 78
metric tons of marijuana, with a combined wholesale value of $7.7 billion. Additionally, evidence and information
gathered from these disruptions assist U.S. Interagency and international law enforcement in prosecution efforts
that further degrade TCOs.

Our Partner Nations continue to be critical enablers in countering TCO smuggling operations. In coordination with
JIATF-South, our Partner Nations have participated in 79.5% percent of operations, resulting in the removal of
240.675 metric tons of cocaine routed toward the United States. The success of these operations relies upon
Partner Nation collaboration, which we systematically nurture and support throughout our routine military-to-military
engagements, training, and exercises. A key investment in this shared fight is the contracted Ship Special Mission
(SSM), an afloat forward staging base embarking Partner Nation Navy and Coast Guard interceptor teams,
extending their reach hundreds of miles offshore where TCOs traffic their illicit commodities. In FY 2023, the SSM
embarked teams from six Partner Nations in the Pacific, Caribbean, and Atlantic Oceans while conducting nine
separate counter-TCO operations. Our partners operating from the SSM seized over 12 metric tons of cocaine and
10 thousand pounds of marijuana, with a combined street value of approximately $500 million.

U.S.-led, multinational counternarcotics operations ultimately result in our partners taking the lead on their own
operations, as Peru recently did during Operation MAR DE GRAU. This operation showcased the value of
Integrated Deterrence and resulted in 2.897 metric tons of cocaine seized or disrupted in three separate cases. This
level of success is directly tied to continued U.S. investment in training and equipping our military and security
partners.

Moreover, USSOUTHCOM works hand-in-hand with the Department of Treasury to counter malign actors' ability to
generate, store, move, and use funds. This includes revenue from corruption, drugs, weapons, human trafficking,
and illegal trade in natural resources and wildlife. During the past year, USSOUTHCOM supported Treasury's
designation of Los Huistas, who facilitated the importation of precursor chemicals from China to manufacture
methamphetamines, as a Drug Trafficking Organization.

                                                                                          Page 12 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

Notwithstanding our significant achievements over the decades in this mission space, there is still more to do,
especially in support of efforts to combat TCOs who directly threaten the democratic stability of the region. As U.S.
resources against this threat decline, we will continue to innovate by re-examining and creatively leveraging current
authorities and unconventional tools, like contract assets, commercial data, and artificial intelligence and machine
learning. We are also working to better align counternarcotics efforts with our larger campaign focus on strategic
competition, such as supporting U.S. law enforcement efforts to sever state-crime alliances related to illicit finance,
cybercrime, and the use of proxies.

Confronting Climate Change. Climate change and environmental degradation reduce military readiness by
expanding requirements and diminishing resources. This AOR is disproportionately affected by extreme weather
events and natural disasters, conditions that impact the region's access to food, water, healthcare, and energy. El
Nino and other naturally occurring phenomena are exacerbated by elevated surface temperatures, which dry out
soil and render farmland less productive, further contributing to irregular migration. This weather pattern also results
in less rainfall in Central America and Northern South America, which affects the water levels required to operate
critical infrastructure such as the Panama Canal, through which five percent of global commerce passes through
annually. Low water levels have limited the number of vessels able to transit each day, at a time when global
shipping is further challenged by threats in the Red Sea.

Alongside our Partner Nations, USSOUTHCOM builds resiliency and increases capacity to respond to extreme
weather events and environmental disasters by holding subject matter expert exchanges and incorporating energy
and climate security scenarios into our major exercises. We also leverage an integrated approach with the Pacific
Disaster Center in Hawaii and other civilian partners, who facilitate HA/DR training and assessments with our
Partner Nations.

USSOUTHCOM is executing a program to assist partners in the Western Hemisphere to provide training to defense
and security partners in how to plan against, prepare for, and respond to climate contingencies, leveraging data-
driven decision making and analytic tools. The program will fund additional bilateral and multilateral research on
climate security in the Western Hemisphere. In 2024, USSOUTHCOM will co-host sub-regional symposia and a
region-wide Capstone Conference on addressing the impacts of climate change. The program's goal is to catalyze
regional collaboration and response mechanisms leading to climate-resilient outcomes.

Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing. The increasing urgency to address the severity of the economic,
human, and environmental consequences of IUU fishing and associated labor abuses continues to grow throughout
the globe. President Biden has cited IUU fishing as one of the greatest threats to the world's oceans. nlxix It
contributes to the "collapse or decline of fisheries that are critical to the economic growth, food systems, and
ecosystems" of our Partner Nations. nlxx Additionally, it can "undermine port and maritime security, as criminal
elements may use similar trade routes, landing sites, and vessels...for trafficking arms, migrants, drugs, and other
contraband." nlxxi

In partnership with other U.S. Government initiatives, USSOUTHCOM is promoting a whole-of-society effort to
better use commercial data, analytics, and emerging technology to improve maritime domain awareness. Through
Enhanced Domain Awareness, a secure, unclassified, virtual environment, we provide partners with a consolidated,
near real-time picture of IUU fishing activities, trends, and reports that contribute to counter-IUU fishing operations
as well as other issues such as migration, human trafficking, and illegal mining. nlxxii Our decisive actions are a
bulwark against unsustainable PRC resource extraction. Simultaneously, they reduce lost Partner Nation revenues
and impede the ability of our adversaries to engage in nefarious activities in the region. Countering IUU fishing is
one more way to bolster our partners' national and economic security.

Cyber. Cyber is an all-encompassing domain that links every facet of society, including defense. The
interconnectedness of the cyber domain continues to grow exponentially with emerging technologies such as
artificial intelligence. This means cybersecurity and cyber defense are challenges confronting more than just
information technology specialists. These difficulties span the full spectrum of government and society, from
presidents to average citizens. Successful plans for countering adversary activities in the cyber domain require

                                                                                          Page 13 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

allocating increased resources and integrating whole-of-government solutions to deliver the required support quickly
and in sufficient quantity.

We support our partners' advancement of their defensive cyber capabilities and develop cyber resiliency through
cybersecurity defense training, software, and equipment with the Joint Combatant Command Cyber Assistance
Teams - USSOUTHCOM's cyber quick reaction force - and Defend Forward Operations. Latin America suffered
about 12 percent of global cyber-attacks even though it only accounts for eight percent of the world's population.
nlxxiii Over the last year, Team Democracy came together to help a requesting Partner Nation recover from a
massive Malign State Actor-supported cyberattack against government ministries that resulted in over $10 million in
losses. We successfully leveraged internal and external resources through multiple engagements to support
recovery and fortify their cyber resiliency. As a result, this partner pursued telecommunications solutions that
conform to the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime and eliminated certain Malign State Actors from competition.

Competing in the Information Space. Democracy's adversaries continue to flood the information space with
disinformation, seeking to advance their malign narratives and agendas upon the "smokeless battlefield." nlxxiv
USSOUTHCOM's information operations team works tirelessly to shape pro-U.S. and pro-democracy narratives
that "tell our story" and highlight the truthful, positive outcomes in the region from our collective efforts. By
synchronizing and coordinating with our Allies, partners, and the U.S. Interagency, we aggressively pierce the
information space to expand our partnerships, underscore the enduring value of human rights and the rule of law,
and retain the offensive in exposing and countering the harmful activity and disinformation generated by the PRC,
Russia, and other malign actors.

Agile Processes. The window to seize the strategic initiative is now. We must continue to innovate and support our
partners at the speed of relevance. Our adversaries work in an authoritarian system that is not checked by
transparent processes or accountability, offering our partners equipment, services, and education on an expedited
basis. Our status as the preferred partner is jeopardized by bureaucratic inefficiencies that result in overpromising
and underdelivering. Our Strategic Competitors fill this void.

The United States must use all the instruments of national power to propel innovation and operate at the cutting
edge of technology. Through collaboration with academic and private industry partners, this command seeks to take
innovative technologies from a controlled laboratory environment to a permissive practical application environment,
establishing the USSOUTHCOM AOR as an innovation hub. In October, U.S. Naval Forces Southern
Command/U.S. Fourth Fleet held its Hybrid Fleet Campaign Event, hosting 47 Department of Defense Commands,
10 foreign partners, and 18 industry partners to foster innovation and experimentation to inform the Unmanned
Campaign and Hybrid Fleet. Over the course of the week, unmanned systems were evaluated in advanced kill
chains, contested operations, survivability, and sustainment at sea. Additionally, USSOUTHCOM has focused on
striking bilateral agreements with our Partner Nations to mutually advance military technologies so that we can work
together quickly to create new beneficial capabilities.

I have made it a priority to integrate tomorrow's technology into our operations and exercises today. Continued
investment and advancements in the areas of robotics, cyber technology, and artificial intelligence and machine
learning will overmatch our adversaries and assist the region's democracies to emerge as global leaders in science
and technology.

Coast Guard Support. The U.S. Coast Guard remains a key partner and enabler of USSOUTHCOM's priorities and
missions. The U.S. Coast Guard maintains unique authorities and capabilities, which, in coordination with the Joint
Force, our Allies, and Partner Nations, disrupt TCOs, IUU fishing, terrorism, and irregular migration. Moreover, they
support USSOUTHCOM Theater Security Cooperation initiatives and conduct a variety of lifesaving and HA mission
support across the region by delivering critical aid in the wake of a disaster. Jointly with the U.S. Army, the U.S.
Coast Guard, as part of the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative -Technical Assistance Field Team, bolsters the
capabilities of Caribbean Partner Nations' maritime assets in support of regional security and counter-trafficking
while simultaneously displacing PRC influence. As always, USSOUTHCOM can faithfully rely on the U.S. Coast
Guard to ensure the safety, security, and stewardship of the region's waters. nlxxv

                                                                                          Page 14 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

Building Our Team - People First

"People execute the strategy." nlxxvi USSOUTHCOM continues to invest in its people to Build Our Team. With their
trust being the foundation of our profession, the health, safety, and welfare of our people remains paramount.
USSOUTHCOM maintains a professional atmosphere that offers educational opportunities, leverages broad
expertise, and fosters diverse and innovative thought to generate solutions to the dynamic problem set in the
Americas.

Housing, Cost of Living Allowance, and Locality Pay. Service members, civilians, contractors, and their families are
the heart and soul of USSOUTHCOM. Our success is tied to the welfare of our team. While South Florida is the
geographic gateway to the Americas, living and working in the area has many economic challenges that have
affected our command, especially as it relates to the cost of housing. Through the hard work of the Office of the
Secretary of Defense and the Department of the Army, along with the support of federal and state officials and local
leaders, we have physically broken ground on the USSOUTHCOM privatized housing project and expect phased
completion between the summers of 2026 and 2027. This project will house nearly 200 service members and their
families.

Our service members and civilian teammates continue to be negatively impacted by the rising cost of living in the
South Florida area. Miami has recently been identified by U.S. News and World Report as the fourth most
expensive city in the United States, with a 5.7 percent increase in basic goods and services and a 10.1 percent
increase in rent of primary residence over the course of CY 2023 - while car insurance rates in Florida have
increased 55 percent over the 2023 national average. nlxxvii, lnxxviii, nlxxix, nlxxx USSOUTHCOM remains in
contact with state and federal officials, including the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Department of the
Army, as well as policymakers, to voice concerns and advocate on behalf of our team.

Joint Interagency Task Force-South Resiliency. JIATF-South is currently spread across four buildings that are 70-
plus years old and do not meet requirements to support their important mission. Design for a new and consolidated
facility will be completed in July 2024. We appreciate the continued support as we look to build a resilient facility for
this critical mission of our nation.

Women, Peace, and Security. USSOUTHCOM's WPS program promotes women's meaningful participation,
leadership, and engagement in decision-making at all levels throughout the AOR. USSOUTHCOM integrates
gender perspectives within our operations, activities, and investments to maximize the talents of women in the force
through their recruitment, retention, training, and advancement. In May 2023, USSOUTHCOM and 14 Partner
Nations gathered in Colombia for the 6th Senior Enlisted Leader Women, Peace, and Security Seminar. With over
300 in-person and 1000 remote attendees, this three-day seminar featured panel discussions, working group
sessions, and a forum to highlight the professional growth, capability, and integrity of women filling the Senior
Enlisted Leader ranks.

Through our ongoing WPS engagements, we build the capacity of our Partner Nations and better enable their
military and security forces to engage with local populations, gain gender perspectives, and better assess the needs
of all the citizens they proudly serve. I have made it a priority to incorporate WPS events into all my travel within the
region, hosting events this past year in Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Panama, Peru,
Paraguay, and Uruguay - showcasing the power of example. Our partners continue to make historic strides. In
Colombia, the first female naval officer was promoted to the rank of Rear Admiral and the first 72 female Marines
graduated from Infantry boot camp. In Uruguay, the Uruguayan Senate approved, for the first time, the promotion of
three female military officers to the rank of Colonel this past September. Women play an important role in
increasing readiness and sustaining regional stability, security, and prosperity, and so we must redouble our efforts
to integrate and institutionalize Women, Peace, and Security initiatives internally and among all our partners.

Total Force. The trends in the Latin America and Caribbean region require a total force approach that maximizes
the integration and strong relationships between the National Guard, Active Component, and Reserve forces. This
approach is exemplified by the Navy Reserve Joint Intelligence Operations Center 0174, whose reserve sailors

                                                                                          Page 15 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

supported the intelligence and evidentiary package that led to sanctioning action on Pingtan Marine Enterprise, Ltd.,
along with eight other affiliated entities involved in IUU fishing. Our Reserve Component is integrated into our daily
operations, including staffing our Joint Operations Center, planning and participating in joint exercises, and
managing the State Partnership Program.

What Resources Does USSOUTHCOM Need?

In this region, a small investment - whether in time, physical resources, funding, or collaboration - goes a long way.
We don't have to outspend the PRC to outcompete, but we must be present on the field and deliver at the speed of
relevance. This requires having a timely budget - continuing resolutions are disruptive to U.S. and Partner Nation
efforts to defend against threats. The PRC and Russia are already here in the Western Hemisphere; time is of the
essence.

Security Cooperation. USSOUTHCOM has adopted a proactive approach to identify opportunities to expedite
delivery of equipment from Security Cooperation and Security Assistance programs. The command maintains
frequent communication with all Security Cooperation stakeholders to anticipate or recognize factors that might
generate delays on FMS, FMF, and Section 333 cases. We then engage with the organizations involved at a senior
level to ensure all teams pre-emptively take actions to mitigate risk and accelerate deliveries to build necessary
partner capacity to address mutual security threats. We appreciate Congress' support for USSOUTHCOM's security
cooperation activities, as these engagements are our main lever in maintaining strong partnerships that help us
edge out the PRC in the region.

Intelligence. Congress has also supported innovative pilot programs that increase domain awareness in the theater.
Given the Department's demand for and limited availability of exquisite Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance assets, USSOUTHCOM aims to mitigate our ranking priority in the collection posture with
Commercial Imagery. Commercial Imagery bypasses the task-saturated national system and provides expedited,
relevant, and unclassified data that has proved crucial during a recent high-profile Haitian Kidnap for Ransom
incident, increased irregular migration, and in monitoring the malign behavior of PRC, Russia, and Iran as tension in
the region continues to rise. We also rely heavily on intelligence gained through the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Section 702 authorities. Without a reauthorization of Section 702, we would lose significant domain
awareness and insight into the threats and challenges in our own hemisphere.

Technology and Innovation. I have made it a priority to integrate tomorrow's technology into our operations and
exercises today. Continued investment and advancements in the areas of robotics, cyber technology, artificial
intelligence and machine learning will overmatch our adversaries and assist the region's democracies to emerge
as global leaders who feed and fuel the world. Additionally, we must improve our information networks,
cybersecurity posture, and interoperability. Improving our networks enhances situational awareness, accelerates
decision-making, and ensures communication readiness across all echelons and with mission partners operating
throughout the USSOUTHCOM AOR. Investments in Mission Partner Environment and Combined Joint All-Domain
Command and Control will underwrite these and future objectives. Moreover, continued Congressional support of
exercises in the Western Hemisphere will ensure the United States' ability to evaluate cutting-edge technologies in
operationally relevant environments. These activities operationally refine future warfighting capabilities and
accelerate technologies for deployment to meet military requirements. USSOUTHCOM's operational
experimentation helps transition research and development from concept to implementation across all Combatant
Commands and domains and, in the end, strengthens Integrated Deterrence and Team Democracy.

Ambassadors. The United States has nine posts operating without an Ambassador, our number one diplomat who
coordinates and synchronizes Team USA's in-country ground game. These absences are a national security issue
and send the message to our Partner Nations that they are not a priority to the United States at a time when the
PRC continues to elevate its presence throughout the Western Hemisphere. The Senate could take action on the
five WHEM nominees for Ambassadorial positions that have already been sent to Congress.

                                                                                           Page 16 of 21
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                       Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

Economic Engagement in the Region. USSOUTHCOM is aware of multiple legislative efforts to encourage
economic engagement and investment in the countries of the Western Hemisphere. National security rests on
economic security, and any increases in economic opportunities for the countries and people of this neighborhood
will mitigate many of the challenges we face as a hemisphere. If people have jobs to sustain their families, they will
be less likely to consider illegally migrating to the United States for opportunities or working with the TCOs to make
ends meet. If governments in the region have the option to work with U.S. or other Western companies, they are
less likely to choose to work with the PRC. Legislative efforts that responsibly incentivize U.S. and Western
investment in the region could greatly add to a whole-of-society approach to national security.

Beijing Convention. Ratification of the Convention on the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Relating to International
Civil Aviation, otherwise known as the Beijing Convention, would expand our ability to cooperate with Partner
Nations for the prevention and prosecution of certain criminal activities, including certain criminal uses of civil
aviation.

Naval Small Craft Instruction and Technical Training School. We appreciate Congress' support of the Naval Small
Craft Instruction and Technical Training School (NAVSCIATTS) in FY 2024 and look forward to working closely with
the Department of the Navy, U.S. Special Operations Command, and Congress to keep this important facility
operational for years to come. The rivers and littorals are critical pathways in securing the hemisphere, and
NAVSCIATTS is uniquely positioned to train our Partner Nations on how to secure this domain as it has for the past
54 years, training 13,000 personnel from 123 countries.

Conclusion

This is a Call to Action! Our adversaries' malign actions and intent, coupled with the numerous transboundary
threats, are a growing challenge - replicating the first and second island chain - to our homeland. USSOUTHCOM,
alongside our Allies and partners, stands ready to defend the democratic values, ideals, and institutions that will
continue to enable this vibrant region to feed and fuel the world. Through Integrated Deterrence and utilizing all
instruments of national power, we will ensure that the safety, security, and prosperity of Latin America and the
Caribbean endure for this generation and all those to come.

ni Congressional Research Service, China Primer: Illicit Fentanyl and China's Role, IF 10890, Barrios, Ricardo;
Lawrence, Susan V., and Rosen, Liana W., Congressional Research Digital Collection, September 28, 2023,
https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF10890.

nii "The Biden-Harris Administration's National Security Strategy." The White House, 12 Oct. 2022, p. 12,
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Biden-Harris-Administrations-National-Security-Strategy-
10.2022.pdf

niii Id. at 40.

niv "World Water Day: Latin America Leads in Water Management but Inequalities in Access Remain." World Bank,
https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2013/03/22/world-water-day-latin-america-achievements-challenges.

nv Latin America and the Caribbean will account for more than 25% of global agricultural exports by 2028, says
FAO - Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce (brazilcham.com)

nvi Wang Yi, "The Belt and Road Initiative Becomes New Opportunity for China-Latin America Cooperation,"
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China, September 18, 2017

nvii "Belt and Road in Latin America: A Regional Game Changer?" Atlantic Council, 9 Oct. 2019,
https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/in-depth-research-reports/issue-brief/belt-and-road-in-latin-america-a-regional-
game-changer/.

                                                                                          Page 17 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

nviii "How Should the U.S. Respond to China's Influence in Latin America?" United States Institute of Peace,
https://www.usip.org/publications/2023/08/how-should-us-respond-chinas-influence-latin-america.

nix "China's Engagement in Latin America: Views from the Region." United States Institute of Peace,
https://www.usip.org/publications/2022/08/chinas-engagement-latin-america-views-region.

nx Brady, Anne-Marie. China's Expanding Antarctic Capacity and Interests. Australian Strategic Policy Institute,
2017, pp. 7-7. JSTOR, https://www.jstor.org/stable/resrep04257.6.

nxi Berg, Ryan C. Combating Chinese Dual-Use Infrastructure: Bringing In the Private Sector. Dec. 2022.
www.csis.org, https://www.csis.org/analysis/combating-chinese-dual-use-infrastructure-bringing-private-sector.

nxii Phillips, Michael M. China Seeks First Military Base on Africa's Atlantic Coast, U.S. Intelligence Finds, The Wall
Street Journal, 5 Dec. 2021, www.wsj.com/articles/china-seeks-first-military-base-on-africas-atlantic-coast-u-s-
intelligence-finds-11638726327.

nxiii "Chinese-Backed Port Project in Peru to be the 'gateway from South America to Asia,' Official Says." AP News,
23              Aug.            2023,              https://apnews.com/article/peru-chancay-china-port-construction-
d13e8e8fe19289a6ab97628f708bc671.

nxiv "How the People's Republic of China Seeks to Reshape the Global Information Environment." United States
Department of State, https://www.state.gov/gec-special-report-how-the-peoples-republic-of-china-seeks-to-reshape-
the-global-information-environment/.

nxv Id.

nxvi Id.

nxvii Dube, Ryan and Steinhauser, Gabriele. "China's Global Mega-Projects Are Falling Apart." The Wall Street
Journal, 20 Jan. 2023, www.wsj.com/articles/china global-mega-projects-infrastructure-falling-apart-11674166180.

nxviii"The Impact of IUU Fishing." Dialogo Americas, 24 Oct. 2022, https://dialogo-americas.com/articles/the-
impact-of-iuu-fishing/.

nxix Fisheries, NOAA. "Countering IUU Fishing: Partnership for Sustainably Managed Fisheries | NOAA Fisheries."
NOAA, 14 Mar. 2023, https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/enforcement/countering-iuu-fishing-partnership-sustainably-
managed-fisheries.

nxx Center for Advanced Defense Studies; 1 May 2019; Following IUU Fishing Networks Onshore: Leveraging
Open Source to Identify Convergence and Facilitators of IUU

nxxi China Dream, Space Dream: China's Progress in Space Technologies and Implications for the United States |
U.S.- CHINA | ECONOMIC and SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION. https://www.uscc.gov/research/china-dream-
space-dream-chinas-progress-space-technologies-and-implications-united-states. P. iv.

nxxii Military and Security Developments Involving the People's Republic of China 2023, Annual Report to
Congress, Department of Defense, p. 89 (https://media.defense.gov/2023/Oct/19/2003323409/-1/-1/1/2023-
MILITARY-AND-SECURITY-DEVELOPMENTS-INVOLVING-THE-PEOPLES-REPUBLIC-OF-CHINA.PDF)

nxxiii Cordesman, Anthony H. and Kendall, Joseph, "Chinese Strategy and Military Modernization in 2016," Center
for Strategic and International Studies (Washington, D.C., 2016), 435.

nxxiv "The Dragon Chases Its Tail." Dialogo Americas, 4 Oct. 2023, https://dialogo-americas.com/articles/the-
dragon-chases-its-tail/.

                                                                                          Page 18 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

nxxv "Securing 5G Networks." Council on Foreign Relations, https://www.cfr.org/report/securing-5g-networks.

nxxvi Pelley, Scott. China Stealing Technology Secrets, "Five Eyes" Intelligence Leaders Warn | 60 Minutes - CBS
News. 22 Oct. 2023, https://www.cbsnews.com/news/china-stealing-technology-secrets-five-eyes-intelligence-
leaders-warn-60-minutes-transcript/.

nxxvii Id.

nxxviii Torres, Guido L., The Impacts of the Russo-Ukrainian War on Latin America in the Age of Strategic
Competition, Harvard Kennedy School, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, March 2023, P. 2,
https://www.belfercenter.org/publication/impacts-russo-ukrainian-war-latin-america-age-strategic-competition

nxxix "Lavrov in Latin America: Russia's Bid for a Multipolar World." United States Institute of Peace,
https://www.usip.org/publications/2023/04/lavrov-latin-america-russias-bid-multipolar-world.

nxxx     "Countering   China     and    Russia's    Asymmetric    Activity  in    Latin     America."     Brookings,
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/countering-china-and-russias-asymmetric-activity-in-latin-america/.

nxxxi Id.

nxxxii "China and Russia Step Up Cyber Presence in Latin America." Dialogo Americas, 26 Aug. 2022,
https://dialogo-americas.com/articles/china-and-russia-step-up-cyber-presence-in-latin-america/.

nxxxiii Countering China and Russia's Asymmetric Activity in Latin America.

nxxxiv "Russian Influence Campaigns in Latin America." United States Institute                           of   Peace,
https://www.usip.org/publications/2023/10/russian-influence-campaigns-latin-america. P. 19

nxxxv Id. at 12.

nxxxvi Id.

nxxxvii "Lavrov in Latin America: Russia's Bid for a Multipolar World." United States Institute of Peace,
https://www.usip.org/publications/2023/04/lavrov-latin-america-russias-bid-multipolar-world.

nxxxviii "Russia Defense Ministry Says Frigate Tests Strike Capabilities in Atlantic." Reuters, 25 Jan. 2023.
www.reuters.com,              https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-defense-ministry-says-frigate-tests-strike-
capabilities-atlantic-2023-01-25/.

nxxxix "New Era of Cuba-Russia Relations Threatens Latin America." Dialogo Americas, 30 Aug. 2023,
https://dialogo-americas.com/articles/new-era-of-cuba-russia-relations-threatens-latin-america/.

nxl "Readout of Secretary Blinken's Event, 'Addressing the Public Health and Security Threats of Synthetic Drugs
Through Global Cooperation.'" United States Department of State, https://www.state.gov/briefings-foreign-press-
centers/readout-of-addressing-the-public-health-and-security-threats-of-synthetic-drugs/.

nxli "How Is China Involved in Organized Crime in Mexico?" Brookings, https://www.brookings.edu/articles/how-is-
china-involved-in-organized-crime-in-mexico/.

nxlii Office of Public Affairs | Justice Department Announces Charges Against Sinaloa Cartel's Global Operation |
United States Department of Justice. 14 Apr. 2023, https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-
charges-against-sinaloa-cartel-s-global-operation.

                                                                                           Page 19 of 21
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                       Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

nnxliii "Iran Increasingly Turns to Latin America." Dialogo Americas, 30 Oct. 2023, https://dialogo-
americas.com/articles/iran-increasingly-turns-to-latin-america/.

nxliv Id.

nxlv Id.

nxlvi"UN Human Rights Official is Alarmed by Sprawling Gang Violence in Haiti", PBS News Hour, 31 Oct. 2023,
https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/un-human-rights-official-is-alarmed-by-sprawling-gang-violence-in-haiti

nxlvii "Gang Violence in Haiti Is Escalating and Spreading with a Significant Increase in Killings, UN Says." AP
News,         28        Sept.        2023,        https://apnews.com/article/haiti-gang-violence-un-report-killings-
5d3f7ff272b7303852869dfc67692a23.

nxlviii "UN Human Rights Official Is Alarmed by Sprawling Gang Violence in Haiti." AP News, 31 Oct. 2023,
https://apnews.com/article/haiti-un-human-rights-oneill-gangs-d75361f059fbcb6b457b3d7d1cedda6e.

nxlix Haiti: PAHO's Humanitarian Response amid Escalating Violence - PAHO/WHO | Pan American Health
Organization.       https://www.paho.org/en/news/15-9-2023-haiti-pahos-humanitarian-response-amid-escalating-
violence.

nl "Overview." World Bank, https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/haiti/overview.

nli "Promoting Accountability for Nicaraguan Officials for Restricting Freedoms." United States Department of State,
https://www.state.gov/promoting-accountability-for-nicaraguan-officials-for-restricting-freedoms/.

nlii A Warm July in China-Nicaragua Relations. https://thediplomat.com/2023/08/a-warm-july-in-china-nicaragua-
relations/.

nliii Arturo McFields, Opinion Contributor. "Nicaragua's Dictatorship Again Embraces North Korean, Russian
Terror." The Hill, 1 Aug. 2023, https://thehill.com/opinion/international/4122078-nicaraguas-dictatorship-again-
embraces-north-korean-russian-terror/.

nliv            https://www.wsj.com/world/small-businesses-become-a-lifeline-for-cubas-floundering-economy-
4d49e562?mod=Searchresults_pos11andpage=1

nlv "How Russia Is Recruiting Cubans To Fight in Ukraine." TIME, 18 Sept. 2023, https://time.com/6314093/russia-
recruiting-cubans-ukraine-war/.

nlvi "China's Xi Vows to Support Cuba in Defending Its National Sovereignty." Reuters, 24 Aug. 2023.
www.reuters.com, https://www.reuters.com/world/chinas-xi-vows-support-cuba-defending-its-national-sovereignty-
2023-08-24/.

nlvii Arturo McFields Yescas, opinion contributor. "Venezuela's Dictator Mocks International Community ... Again."
The Hill, 17 Nov. 2022, https://thehill.com/opinion/international/3740965-venezuelas-dictator-mocks-international-
community-again/.

nlviii "Venezuela Referendum Result: Voters Back Bid to Claim Sovereignty over Large Swath of Guyana." The
Guardian, 4 Dec. 2023. The Guardian, https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/dec/04/venezuela-referendum-
2023-results-guyana-region-claim-succeeds-sovereignty-essequibo.

nlix Southern District of New York | Manhattan U.S. Attorney Announces Narco-Terrorism Charges Against Nicolas
Maduro, Current And Former Venezuelan Officials, and FARC Leadership | United States Department of Justice. 26

                                                                                           Page 20 of 21
    Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                       Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

Mar.    2020,    https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/manhattan-us-attorney-announces-narco-terrorism-charges-
against-nicolas-maduro-current.

nlx Human Rights Watch. "Venezuela: Events of 2021." Human Rights Watch, https://www.hrw.org/world-
report/2022/country-chapters/venezuela.

nlxi "Report: Venezuela Security Forces Continue Killings, Torture." AP News, 5 July                          2021,
https://apnews.com/article/caribbean-united-nations-venezuela-c84d79516c08a1121edf25f3b5585b97.

nlxii Arturo McFields Yescas. "Venezuela's Dictator Mocks International Community ... Again." The Hill, 17 Nov.
2022, https://thehill.com/opinion/international/3740965-venezuelas-dictator-mocks-international-community-again/.

nlxiii Tahtinen, Ryan C. Berg, Lauri. "Venezuela's Maduro Should Be Tried for Ecocide." Foreign Policy, 1 Feb.
2024, https://foreignpolicy.com/2021/05/14/venezuela-ecocide-maduro-icc/.

nlxv "U.S. Needs to Invest More in Latin America to Counteract China in the Region." United States Institute of
Peace, https://www.usip.org/publications/2023/10/us-needs-invest-more-latin-america-counteract-china-region.

nlxvi Id.

nlxvii "Looking Back for the Way Ahead: An Interview with Retired Gen. Lloyd Austin",
https://www.army.mil/article/198441/looking_back_for_the_way_ahead_an_interview_with_retired_gen_lloyd_austin
.

nlxviii Sykes, Lashawn. "Burlington's Top-Tier Completes First-Ever Continuing Promise Mission." Military News, 26
Oct. 2023, https://www.militarynews.com/norfolk-navy-flagship/news/topstories/burlington-s-top-tier-completes-first-
ever-continuing-promise-mission/article_4a42db44-7359-11ee-8880-b3cc818ef90a.html.

nlxix "Memorandum on Combating Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing and Associated Labor Abuses."
The      White     House,   27     June      2022,      https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-
actions/2022/06/27/memorandum-on-combating-illegal-unreported-and-unregulated-fishing-and-associated-labor-
abuses/.

nlxx Federal Agencies Release Joint U.S. Strategy for Combating Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing,
https://www.uscg.mil/iuufishing/.

nlxxi "Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing." United States Department of State, https://www.state.gov/key-
topics-office-of-marine-conservation/illegal-unreported-and-unregulated-fishing/.

nlxxii Vincent, Brandi. "As It Helps Combat Unlawful Fishing Internationally, NGA Is 'Posturing' for an AI-Driven
Future." DefenseScoop, 10 May 2023, https://defensescoop.com/2023/05/10/as-it-helps-combat-unlawful-fishing-
internationally-nga-is-posturing-for-an-ai-driven-future/.

nlxxiii Americas Quarterly, Vol. 17, Issue 3, 2023, at 22.

nlxxiv "Why Do Young Americans Support Hamas? Look at TikTok." The Free Press, 2 Nov. 2023,
https://www.thefp.com/p/tik-tok-young-americans-hamas-mike-gallag.

nlxxv"Coast Guard Roles and Missions." United States Coast Guard Academy, https://uscga.edu/careers/roles-and-
missions/.

                                                                                          Page 21 of 21
   Senate Armed Services Committee Hearing "Posture of United States Northern Command and United States
                      Southern Command in Review of the Defense Authorization Req....

nlxxvi U.S. Department of Defense, 2022 National Defense Strategy (Washington, D.C.: Department of Defense,
2022): 20, https://media.defense.gov/2022/Oct/27/2003103845/-1/-1/1/2022-NATIONAL-DEFENSE-STRATEGY-
NPR-MDR.PDF.

nlxxvii    Most      Expensive   Places     to   Live,   Ranked.      U.S.     News     and    World     Report,
https://realestate.usnews.com/places/rankings/most-expensive-places-to-live.

nlxxviii Rent of Primary Residence in Miami Area Rose 10.1 Percent over the Year Ended December 2023: The
Economics Daily: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. https://www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2024/rent-of-primary-residence-in-
miami-area-rose-10-1-percent-over-the-year-ended-december-2023.htm.

nlxxix Consumer Price Index, Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach -- December 2023: Southeast Information
Office:     U.S.     Bureau      of      Labor      Statistics,  https://www.bls.gov/regions/southeast/news-
release/consumerpriceindex_miami.htm.

nlxxx Machado, Alina. "Why Are We Paying More for Car Insurance in Florida?" NBC 6 South Florida, 21 Jan.
2024, https://www.nbcmiami.com/responds/why-are-we-paying-more-for-car-insurance-in-florida/3211024/.

Read this original      document     at:   https://www.armed-services.senate.gov/download/richardson-statement-
31424?download=1


Load-Date: March 15, 2024


  
