

                                                                                Page 1 of 23
     G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                            CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS




G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024)
   ADDRESSING GLOBAL CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS
                                               States News Service
                                               April 19, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 15660 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BERLIN

Body


The following information was released by the Federal Foreign Office of Germany:

I. INTRODUCTION

As the international community faces multiple crises we, the G7 Foreign Ministers of Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, and the High Representative of the European
Union, renew our commitment to upholding the rule of law, humanitarian principles and international law, including
the Charter of the United Nations, and to protecting human rights and dignity for all individuals.

We reiterate the need to take collective action to preserve peace and stability and to address global challenges
such as climate change, pollution, biodiversity loss, global health, education, gender inequality, poverty, food
insecurity and malnutrition, violent extremism and terrorism, information integrity and a digital transition that
respects, protects, and promotes human rights and fundamental freedoms.

We affirm our commitment to free societies and democratic principles, where all persons can freely exercise their
rights and freedoms. Human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated.

We reaffirm our commitment to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (2030 Agenda) and to re-energize
efforts towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as multidimensional crises, and
particularly the pandemic and ongoing major conflicts, have set back progress towards their achievement.

We will continue to work in close cooperation with our partners and with relevant multilateral fora such as the G20.
Global challenges require solidarity and a cohesive international response, looking for shared solutions for peace,
stability, and development, leaving no one behind.

II. FOSTERING PARTNERSHIP WITH THE MEDITERRANEAN AND AFRICA

We will continue to deepen the partnership with African countries and regional organizations, including the African
union (AU). We welcome the AU participation in the G20 as a permanent member and reiterate our support for the

                                                                               Page 2 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

G20 Compact with Africa. The G7-Africa partnership is guided by the objectives of the AU Agenda 2063, the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement.

The consequences of the Russian aggression and its weaponization of food supplies and energy resources have
affected notably many vulnerable countries, particularly in Africa. In this perspective, Russia's war is proving not just
a war against Ukraine but against the world's poorest and most vulnerable.

We reiterate our strong partnership for just, green transitions to net zero emissions as core to sustainable
development, and we are ready to inject new momentum into the pursuit of Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs). Together with the entire international community and stakeholders beyond government, we need to
urgently work in partnership to accelerate progress towards the 2030 Agenda and SDGs, consistent with the
unanimous commitment reaffirmed at the UN General Assembly last September.

Debt vulnerabilities are a significant challenge. We fully support the G20's effort to improve the implementation of
the "Common Framework" in a predictable, timely, orderly, and coordinated manner, providing clarity to
participants. We recognize the importance of effective and long-term solutions, promoting coordination between
official bilateral and private creditors. We call upon Multilateral Development Banks and development finance
institutions to continue to play a key role to foster sustainable development through increased financing, policy
advice and technical assistance for the benefit of developing countries, particularly the poorer and more fragile
countries across the continent. In particular central to economic development is ensuring access to sustainable and
resilient food systems, health care and health security, and clean, affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern
energy for all.

We reiterate our commitment to supporting African governments as they address conditions leading to terrorism,
violent extremism, and instability, while respecting human rights and the rule of law. Development and democracy
are mutually reinforcing, and we underscore the importance of free and fair elections to meet the citizens' needs
and expectations.

We are concerned about the activities of the Kremlin-backed Wagner Group and other emerging Russia-backed
forces, which are producing a destabilizing impact, notably in North Africa, Central Africa, and the Sahel. We call for
accountability of all those responsible for human rights abuses.

1. Libya

We will continue to help Libya put an end to its protracted internecine conflict, also fueled by foreign forces, fighters
and mercenaries, in order to build a more peaceful and prosperous future and support its stability, independence,
territorial integrity and national unity. The political stalemate leaves Libya extremely vulnerable to third state actors
pursuing control over Libya's security, politics and economy, sowing instability throughout the country and wider
region.

We therefore call on all Libyan political actors to engage in meaningful dialogue in order to break the current
impasse and move towards a credible roadmap to free, fair and inclusive national presidential and parliamentary
elections without delay. The international community must also be united in the pursuit of these goals.

We take note with regret of the recent announcement by UN Special Representative of the Secretary General,
Abdoulaye Bathily, regarding his decision to resign. We thank him for his dedicated service and renew our full
support to the United Nations and the key role it continues to play in Libya. We call on the Secretary General of the
United Nations to appoint his successor without delay.

2. Sahel

We express our grave concern for the deterioration of the security situation in the Sahel, compounded by the
backsliding of the principles of constitutional rule of law, democracy and good governance and regression in the
regional cooperation frameworks.

                                                                               Page 3 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

Such an increasingly precarious and unpredictable political scenario requires renewed efforts by all relevant actors
and stakeholders in reconfiguring international and regional responses to the challenge of growing political tension,
confrontation, and instability in the Sahel.

We are also deeply concerned by the spread of terrorist threats and activities, leading to conflict and causing
widespread misery and displacement of the civilian population. We are appalled by the grave human rights
violations committed by multiple parties, including Russian proxies in the region.

We look forward to strengthening further our cooperation with the African Union, regional organizations and the UN
in fostering stability, security, good governance and development in the Sahel, preventing a "spill-over" of insecurity
towards the Gulf of Guinea and North Africa, as well as irregular migration flows towards North Africa, Europe and
the Western Hemisphere.

We congratulate Mauritania on its taking over the rotating Presidency of the African Union and we commend its
commitment to the rule of law, good governance, refugee inclusion and constitutional values. We stand ready to
assist States of the Sahel in accelerating the pace of the transition towards the return of the constitutional order.

3. Horn of Africa

We reaffirm our strong commitment to promoting peace, security, and stability in the Horn of Africa. We continue to
provide humanitarian support to those most affected by food insecurity, widespread poverty, armed violence, the
impact of extreme weather events and displacement.

We express our concern regarding the Memorandum of Understanding between Ethiopia and the Somaliland region
of Somalia announced in January 2024. We encourage both the Ethiopian and the Federal Government of Somalia
to keep all channels of dialogue open to prevent further escalation, working with regional partners, in the framework
of the African Union and through bilateral contacts, in accordance with international law and the principles of
sovereignty and territorial integrity as enshrined in the UN Charter.

4. Somalia

We commend the important progress in the institutional, macroeconomic and security sector in Somalia. We
encourage the Somali Authorities to continue to make meaningful progress in the fight against Al Shabaab and in
the consolidation of the institutional framework, including completion of a transparent and inclusive constitutional
reform process.

The process of transitioning security responsibilities to the Somali security forces needs to be closely followed,
especially in view of the termination of the mandate of the African Union Transitional Mission (ATMIS) in Somalia at
the end of 2024. We welcome planning underway by Somalia and the African Union for a multinational mission to
follow ATMIS to help maintain stability while Somalia continues to develop its security capabilities.

5. Ethiopia

While we welcome developments in the implementation of the cessation of hostilities agreement between the
Government of Ethiopia and the Tigray People's Liberation Front, we express concern for the persistent and violent
tensions in many areas of the country, as well as reports of human rights violations and abuses, the severe
economic crisis and widening food insecurity.

We encourage further and lasting developments in the protection of human rights, protection of civilians, political
dialogue to resolve tensions, reconciliation and national dialogue, transitional justice and accountability for crimes
committed during the conflict.

We call for a similar commitment by those involved in conflicts in other regions of Ethiopia to pursue peace through
dialogue.

                                                                               Page 4 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We underscore the importance of delivering peace dividend quickly for conflict-affected populations through
recovery and reconstruction support, disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration of ex-combatants, and
implementation of durable solutions for Internally Displaced People (IDPs).

6. Sudan

We strongly condemn the ongoing fighting between the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces in
Sudan, where the humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate more than one year into the war. We especially
note the impact of the crisis on women and girls, and condemn the ongoing atrocities being committed by both
sides of the conflict, including using rape and other forms of gender-based violence including conflict-related sexual
violence. We are concerned by the increasing numbers of displaced people.

Obstruction of humanitarian access by the Sudanese Armed Forces and rapid Support Forces is resulting in the
starvation of the Sudanese people. We urge both the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces to
agree and implement a lasting ceasefire without pre-conditions and to establish safe and stable humanitarian cross
border and cross line access channels, including from multiple points of entry to the most devastated areas of
Sudan. We urge all actors to return to negotiations and to engage in a national dialogue inclusive of women and the
composite Sudanese civil society and aimed at re-establishing civilian and representative institutions. An active
African role and the continued support of the international community remain essential to help Sudan to restore the
democratic transition process.

We commend the outcomes of the Paris Conference for Sudan and the Neighbouring countries during which over 2
billion Euros have been pledged to support civilian population in Sudan and those who sought refuge in
neighbouring countries in 2024.

7. Democratic Republic of the Congo

We strongly condemn the resumption of attacks by the March 23 Movement (M23) in the east of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (DRC). We are very concerned by the worsening of the humanitarian situation, and the
increasing serious human rights violations and abuses the population is being subjected to. We also condemn all
armed groups operating in the country. We demand the immediate cessation of hostilities and of any further
advances by the M23 and its withdrawal from all occupied areas as agreed through the African Union-endorsed
Luanda process. We demand all armed groups to cease hostilities, withdraw from the areas they are controlling and
disarm.

We expressed deep concern at the reports of the Group of Experts on the DRC on foreign military support for M23
and direct military interventions on DRC territory. We condemn any such support provided to M23 and any other
armed group operating in the DRC and demand its cessation and the immediate withdrawal of any unauthorized
foreign military presence from the DRC. We also condemn support, notably provided by military forces, to certain
armed groups such as the Democratic Liberation Forces of Rwanda (FDLR), and demand the cessation of such
support.

We stress that any violations of the UN arms embargo is unacceptable and urge all States to stop any support to
these armed groups.

We remain committed to the Luanda and Nairobi processes to reach a negotiated diplomatic solution to the conflict.
We encourage an effective Disarmament, Demobilization, Community Recovery, and Stabilization programme and
the meaningful participation of women and youth in all their diversity. We also stand ready to work with the nations
of the Great Lakes region to address the root causes of the cycles of violence in eastern DRC in a manner that
takes into account the concerns and interests of the whole region, including by promoting accountability for all
actors responsible for violations and abuses of human rights and international humanitarian law.

III. ADDRESSING IRREGULAR MIGRATION, FOSTERING HOPE AND OPPORTUNITY

                                                                               Page 5 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We recognize that forced displacement and irregular migration have to be addressed in an integrated,
comprehensive, and balanced manner, in a spirit of joint responsibility and commitment, and in accordance with
international law and in full respect of human rights.

We will support our partners in addressing the root causes of instability in Africa and other regions and countries of
origin, while promoting a cycle of growth grounded in the huge potential of the Continent, particularly in view of the
just and clean transition and growth in access to electricity, offering alternative solutions to irregular migration.
Collectively, we will address migration drivers including through: better leveraging and coordinating our
development and climate finance; supporting fragile and conflict afflicted states; and strengthening international
capacity to address climate change, conflict, learning poverty and other drivers of migration. We are ready to build
synergies among initiatives from all partners and institutions. We will also continue to support African countries
hosting large number of displaced populations.

We acknowledge that climate change is a risk multiplier already having a strong impact on human mobility. We see
the need to further strengthen disaster risk reduction, adaptation, and resilience measures to counteract the drivers
of involuntary displacement in the context of climate change.

Human traffickers and people smugglers must be stopped from continuing their nefarious activities and we need to
disrupt their business models. We recognize that women and girls are especially impacted by human trafficking,
particularly trafficking for sexual exploitation. The UN and its Agencies have a role to play in this respect. Countries
of origin, transit and destination must work together to stop migrant smuggling and human trafficking and uphold the
dignity and worth of the human person in line with the UN Charter.

We will work towards reducing irregular migration and envisioning regular, safe and orderly migration on the basis
of relevant national sovereign regulations. We are committed to find ways to better address challenges posed by
irregular migration, within the framework of our international obligations. We will enhance cooperation against
migrant smuggling and human trafficking. In this respect, we acknowledge the "Rome Process" started in July 2023
with an International Conference on Migration and Development" with the dual objective of fighting human
traffickers and smugglers and supporting economic development. We also acknowledge the "Mattei Plan for Africa"
launched by Italy. We also recall the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and protection and the multilateral legal
framework on migration and refugee protection. Legal migration pathways can contribute to economic growth and
decent work in line with international standards in countries of origin and destination.

We need to inject consistency and coherence in our investment in areas of shared priority for Africa, including food
security, nutrition, sustainable rural development, energy transition, sustainable, inclusive, resilient, and quality
infrastructure development, bridging digital divides, education, training and skilling, gender equality and good
governance. Based on a mutually beneficial exchange, approaching issues on an equal footing, and ensuring
alignment with Africa's needs and priorities as identified by the African Union, African Governments and their
peoples, we must step up efforts to achieve concrete sustainable development outcomes, contribute to the
stabilization of areas of crisis, fight fundamentalism and address the root causes of irregular migration flows.

IV. PROMOTING A FREE AND OPEN INDO-PACIFIC, MANAGING ENGAGEMENT IN ASIA

The Indo-Pacific region is a key engine for global growth, with more than half of the world's population. We reiterate
commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific, based on the rule of law, which is inclusive, prosperous, secure,
grounded on respect for international law, notably the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the principles of
territorial integrity, sovereignty, peaceful resolution of disputes, fundamental freedoms, and human rights. We
underscore that peace and stability of the region also contributes to prosperity and development of the entire
international community. Developments in that region can directly affect Euro-Atlantic security.

We reaffirm individual initiatives of the G7 members and welcome those of our partners, such as ASEAN, IORA,
Australia, Republic of Korea, India and other South Asian as well as Pacific Island countries, to enhance their
engagement in the region. We underscore our commitment to further strengthening our coordination among the G7.
In this context, we reaffirm the importance of working together with all regional partners.

                                                                               Page 6 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We reaffirm our thorough support to ASEAN centrality and unity, as well as to initiatives aimed at fostering regional
cooperation in line with the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific.

We underscore our commitment to further strengthen our partnership with the Pacific Island countries, by
supporting their needs and efforts in the implementation of the Pacific Islands Forum's 2050 Strategy for the Blue
Pacific Continent. We look forward to the 4th International Conference on Small Island Developing States under the
theme "Charting the course towards resilient prosperity" (St. John's, Antigua and Barbuda 27th-30th May 2024). We
will broaden our support to civil society, private sector, and academia's plans for the promotion of a free and open
Indo-Pacific.

8. China

We recognize the importance of constructive and stable relations with China. We reaffirm the need to engage
candidly with and express our concerns directly to China. China is a key interlocutor in addressing global
challenges, and we stand ready to cooperate with China on areas of common interest.

We reaffirm our interest in a balanced and reciprocal collaboration with China aimed at promoting global economic
growth, with a view to enabling sustainable and fair economic relations and strengthening the international trading
system. Our policy approaches are not designed to harm China, nor do we seek to thwart China's economic
progress and development. However, we are concerned that China's non-market policies and practices are leading
to harmful overcapacity that undermines our workers, industries, and economic resilience. A growing China that
plays by international rules would be of global interest. We are not decoupling or turning inwards.

We reiterate the importance of ensuring a level playing field and a transparent, predictable, and fair business
environment. Respect for the rules-based multilateral trading system based on market principles needs to be the
hallmark of our relations, to protect our workers and companies from unfair and non-market policies and practices,
including forced technology transfer or illegitimate data disclosure, which distort the global economy and undermine
fair competition. We will protect our workers and business communities from unfair practices, including those that
lead to overcapacity, create supply chain vulnerabilities and increase exposure to economic coercion, as we
recognize that economic resilience requires de-risking and diversification where necessary.

We reaffirm the need to uphold the principles of the UN Charter in their entirety. In this respect, we call on China to
press Russia to stop its military aggression. We express our strong concern about transfers to Russia from
business in China of dual-use materials and components for weapons and equipment for military production.

We are seriously concerned about the situation in the East and South China Seas and reiterate our strong
opposition to any unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion. We continue to oppose China's
dangerous use of coast guard and maritime militia in the South China Sea and its repeated obstruction of countries'
high seas freedom of navigation and we express serious concern about the increasing use of dangerous
maneuvers and water cannons against Philippines vessels in this regard. There is no legal basis for China's
expansive maritime claims in the South China Sea, and we oppose China's militarization, coercive and intimidation
activities in the South China Sea. We re-emphasize the universal and unified character of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and reaffirm UNCLOS's important role in setting out the legal
framework that governs all activities in the oceans and the seas. We reiterate that the award rendered by the
Arbitral Tribunal on July 12, 2016, is a significant milestone, which is legally binding upon the parties to those
proceedings and a useful basis for peacefully resolving disputes between the parties.

We restate the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait as indispensable to security and
prosperity for the whole international community and we call for peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues. We
support Taiwan's meaningful participation in international organizations, including in the World Health Assembly
and WHO technical meetings, as a member where statehood is not a prerequisite and as an observer or guest
where it is. There is no change in the basic position of the G7 members on Taiwan, including stated one China
policies.

                                                                               Page 7 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We remain concerned about the human rights situation in China, including in Xinjiang and Tibet. We express our
concerns about the deterioration of pluralism and civil and political rights in Hong Kong since the 2020 National
Security Law. We reemphasize these concerns following the recent passage of the Safeguarding National Security
Ordinance under Article 23 of the Basic Law, which will further erode autonomy, human rights, and fundamental
freedoms in Hong Kong. The new law will make it harder to live, work and do business in Hong Kong and
undermine the ability of Hong Kong people to maintain free and open exchanges with the wider world. We reiterate
our call on China to uphold its commitments under the Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, which
enshrine rights and freedoms and a high degree of autonomy for Hong Kong. Furthermore, we urge China and the
Hong Kong authorities to act in accordance with their international commitments and applicable legal obligations.

We call on China not to conduct or condone activities aimed at undermining the security and safety of our
communities and the integrity of our democratic institutions, and to act in strict accordance with its obligations under
the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. We encourage
China to uphold its commitments to act responsibly in cyber space.

9. North Korea

We reiterate our strong condemnation of North Korea's escalatory development of its unlawful weapons of mass
destruction (WMD) and ballistic missile programmes. We further reiterate our call for the complete denuclearization
of the Korean Peninsula and demand that North Korea abandon all its nuclear weapons, existing nuclear programs,
and any other WMD and ballistic missile programmes in a complete, verifiable, and irreversible manner in
accordance with all relevant UN Security Council resolutions. We urge North Korea to return to, and fully comply
with, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and IAEA safeguards and to sign and ratify the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). We reiterate that North Korea cannot have the status of a
nuclear-weapon state in accordance with the NPT. We urge North Korea not to conduct any further nuclear tests.
We urge all UN member states to implement all relevant UNSCRs fully and effectively and demand Security Council
members to follow through on their commitments. We urge North Korea to cease activities that generate revenue
for its unlawful ballistic missile and WMD programmes, including malicious cyber activities.

In this context, we condemn in the strongest possible terms the increasing military cooperation between North
Korea and Russia, including North Korea's export and Russia's procurement of North Korean ballistic missiles in
violation of UNSC resolutions, as well as Russia's use of these missiles against Ukraine. We are also deeply
concerned about the potential for any transfer of nuclear or ballistic missiles-related technology to North Korea, in
violation of the relevant UNSC resolutions. Russia's veto of the UN Security Council resolution to renew the
mandate of the UNSCR 1718 Committee Panel of Experts makes it easier for North Korea to evade the UN
sanctions that Russia had previously voted for. We urge Russia and North Korea to immediately cease all such
activities and abide by relevant UNSCRs. We reiterate our commitment to counter sanctions evasion and
strengthen enforcement. We will increase efforts to maintain the Panel of Experts.

We strongly condemn North Korea's systematic human rights violations and abuses and its choice to prioritize its
unlawful weapons development programs over the welfare of the people in North Korea. We call upon North Korea
to resolve the abductions issue immediately and to meaningfully engage with the UN human rights system. We take
note of the progressive re-opening of North Korea's borders and call upon North Korea to take this opportunity to
re-engage with the international community including through the return of all diplomatic and humanitarian
personnel to North Korea.

We are disappointed by North Korea's continued rejection of dialogue and call on North Korea to accept repeated
offers of dialogue, in order to enhance regional peace and security.

10. Myanmar

We reiterate our strong condemnation of the military coup in Myanmar and reaffirm our support and solidarity with
the people of Myanmar in their quest for peace, freedom, and democracy. The continuing attacks by the military
destroying civilian infrastructure (including homes, schools, places of worship and hospitals), the repeated and

                                                                               Page 8 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

serious violations of human rights and the alarming humanitarian situation which particularly affect those in most
vulnerable situations, including children, women and members of minority religious and ethnic groups are
unacceptable. We also condemn the recent implementation of the 2010 conscription law by the military regime. The
forced recruitment of young people can only lead to further violence and trigger a massive exodus to neighboring
countries.

We urge the Myanmar military to immediately cease any violence, release all prisoners arbitrarily detained starting
from the democratically elected leaders- and establish an inclusive dialogue with all stakeholders, in view of
restoring the path towards a meaningful and durable democratic process. We also reiterate our call on the Myanmar
military to respect human rights and international humanitarian law, to desist from any form of forced labour and to
allow prompt, safe and unhindered humanitarian access to all displaced persons and people in need.

We continue to support ASEAN's efforts to promote a credible and inclusive process to achieve the swift
implementation of the Five-Point Consensus. We highlight the importance of a comprehensive implementation of
United Nations Security Council resolution 2669 (2022) and support the UN's further engagement in the crisis,
including through the leadership of the newly appointed UN Special Envoy on Myanmar and through the
designation of a Resident Coordinator in country. Accountability for serious crimes committed in Myanmar remains
essential.

We reiterate our call on all States to prevent or to cease the flow of arms and other dual-use materiel, including jet
fuel, into Myanmar. We stress the need to create conditions for the voluntary, safe, dignified, and sustainable return
of all Rohingya refugees and displaced persons and justice and accountability for atrocities committed against
Rohingya and other ethnic communities.

V. ADDRESSING GLOBAL CHALLENGES

11. Development Finance and Infrastructure

We reaffirm our commitment to promoting sustainable, resilient, inclusive, and quality infrastructure as a key
element for achieving sustainable development by addressing the infrastructure investment gap in low- and middle-
income countries. The G7 Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment and initiatives such as the EU
Global Gateway offer a framework we will use to promote our vision of sustainable and economically viable
infrastructure, underpinned by transparent project selection, procurement and finance.

We reaffirm our commitment to advancing high standards for quality infrastructure as a means to spur sustainable
and inclusive economic development.

We intend to work together to accelerate progress towards the commitment to mobilize up to 600 billion USD by
2027 by enhancing the strategic dimension of the Partnership for the Global Infrastructure and Investment We
propose to act in close cooperation with partner countries, multilateral development banks and development finance
institutions, including through de-risking, co-financing initiatives and enhanced coordination mechanisms, including
at country/regional level, to further promote the development of a pipeline of bankable projects in close cooperation
with the private sector, as well as to reinforce project preparation.

Infrastructure development should also encompass a wide range of initiatives (i.e. on regulatory frameworks, jobs
market, energy access, training and research and health systems) to support partners in order to offer opportunities
to the most marginalized and vulnerable and with a view to strengthening social cohesion and inclusion.

We will promote a transformative shift towards quality investment, in key areas that drive inclusive and sustainable
development and resilience, including food security, climate and clean energy, biodiversity and reducing pollution,
connectivity including ICT and transport networks, global supply chain resilience, health and education, and
mainstreaming gender equality. We will prioritize efforts to deepen partnerships with Africa and based on the
continent's investment needs, consistent with the goal of accelerating progress towards the SDGs, through
concrete deliverables, such as ongoing work along the Lobito Corridor. Given its global mandate, G7 countries will

                                                                               Page 9 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

also continue to deploy investment while bringing forward the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment
global strategy in other strategic regions, such as work on the Luzon Economic Corridor.

Recognizing the insufficient progress towards the 2030 Agenda and the urgency to address the financing gaps in
the context of a growing number of low-income countries and middle-income countries facing higher risk of debt
distress and constrained fiscal space to invest in their own development and futures, we will work together with our
partners and with international finance institutions to create the conditions to scale up long-term financing for the
countries in need. In that regard, we welcome the launch of infrastructure certification schemes, such as the Blue
Dot Network and the Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition Infrastructure initiatives, which aim to
mobilize increased private investment in emerging markets. We will strive to enhance the development finance
toolkit, to mobilize additional financing from international financial institutions, bilateral partners and the private
sector to more effectively reduce poverty and protect the planet.

12. Food Security and Nutrition Security

We express concern about rising food insecurity and malnutrition stemming from the combined impact of climate
change, loss and degradation of ecosystems, the growing number of conflicts, inflationary pressures, and the
reduced fiscal space in many developing economies. We are committed to addressing, with partners, the worsening
hunger crisis affecting parts of Africa. Strengthening the resilience of agri-food systems is necessary to effectively
address food insecurity and malnutrition. That makes internationally coordinated action more urgent than ever.
Ensuring food and nutrition security remains a challenge for the international community and affected countries,
especially in known hunger hotspots in Africa and beyond, that are vulnerable to climate and conflict-related
shocks.

We reaffirm our intention to increase investments to build more resilient and sustainable food systems, to help
mitigate against future food shocks and diversify food supply chains. To that end, we reaffirm our commitment to
contributing to sustainable and resilient food systems transformation, in the spirit of the Roadmap for Global Food
Security-Call to Action and the UN Secretary General's Call to Action for Accelerated Food Systems
Transformation, issued at the UN Food Systems Summit +2 held in July 2023 in Rome. We recall the Hiroshima
Action Statement for Resilient Global Food Security, issued by G7 Leaders and invited countries. We also reaffirm
our support for the G20 Matera Declaration on Food Security, Nutrition and Food Systems and the G7 Global
Alliance for Food Security. We acknowledge the importance of supporting fertilizer use efficiency and value chains,
including local fertilizer production. The G7 is committed to the success of the next Nutrition for Growth Summit in
2025.

We also reaffirm our commitment to work with the Rome-based agencies FAO, IFAD and WFP. We recognize the
role of the Committee on World Food Security as an inclusive and multi-stakeholder platform to work together on
food security and nutrition.

In continuity with the UAE Leaders Declaration on Sustainable Agriculture, Resilient Food Systems, and Climate
Action, endorsed at the COP28 by 159 Countries, including all the G7, we will enhance our efforts to address the
food security-climate change nexus in a coherent and pragmatic manner, including through initiatives like the Vision
for Adapted Crops and Soils (VACS).

We stress the need for better coordination of international initiatives and projects aimed at countering food
insecurity and malnutrition in order to maximize the delivery and impact of already existing resources. We continue
to need innovative financial solutions for food systems, especially involving responsible private investment.

13. Economic Resilience and Economic Security

Economic resilience and economic security are critical for the proper functioning of the G7 and wider global
economies. We will foster cooperation in accordance with the G7 Leaders' Statement on economic Security issued
at Hiroshima last year. To this end, we remain committed to making global supply chains more resilient and reliable
especially for critical products and technologies.

                                                                              Page 10 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We will continue to co-ordinate work on de-risking, diversification and reduction of critical dependencies and
systemic vulnerabilities, actively engaging the private sector.

We emphasize the importance of honoring international norms and obligations to safeguard global economic
security and resilience and reaffirm our commitment to building global economic resilience and responding to
harmful practices that undermine the rules-based multilateral trading system with the WTO at its core. We will
continue working within the G7 and with trusted partners towards resilient supply chains, built in a transparent,
diversified, secure, sustainable, trustworthy, and reliable manner.

We reiterate our concern about increasing threats to economic security for all global economies, notably economic
coercion, and comprehensive strategies that use non-market policies and practices, as well as other practices in the
pursuit of market dominance that lead to harmful overcapacity and supply chain concentration, thereby creating
vulnerabilities and dependencies. We remain committed to enhancing our coordination and cooperation within the
G7, while at the same time engaging other interested international partners about joining our efforts. We will
continue work, principally through the Coordination Platform on Economic Coercion to improve our assessment,
preparedness, deterrence, and response to economic coercion, in accordance with our respective legal systems
and in conformity with international law.

We acknowledge the key role of semiconductors as a critical part of supply chain resilience and economic security.
To that end, we welcome the establishment by the G7 Industry, Technology and Digital Ministers of a
semiconductors Point of Contact (PoC) Group dedicated to facilitating information exchange and sharing best
practices among G7 members.

14. Climate, Energy Security and Environment

We are facing the unprecedented triple global crises of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution that are
mutually reinforcing and intrinsically linked, as well as an ongoing global energy crisis, health threats, and
environmental damage, including those caused or exacerbated by Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine.

The international community needs to come together and act decisively, irrespective of geographic or political
divides, taking concrete steps collectively to achieve the global target to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above
pre-industrial levels and achieve global net zero (CHG) emissions by 2050.

To this end, we reaffirm our commitment, and we reiterate the call on all countries to contribute to global efforts to
accelerate the transition away from fossil fuels in energy systems, in a just, orderly, sustainable and equitable
manner, accelerating action in this critical decade so as to achieve net zero by 2050 in keeping with the science
and to accelerate low and zero-emission technologies.

We recognize the primary need to accelerate the transition to net-zero emissions by 2050, while ensuring policies to
diversify energy sources and supplies to address potential security risks to energy systems, in a manner consistent
with our climate and sustainability goals.

We are determined to promote energy efficiency as the "first fuel", and fast-track clean, safe, and sustainable
energy development and deployment, while reducing our dependency on fossil fuels. Moreover, actions must be
taken to increase access to electricity and clean cooking as well as to accelerate sustainable, just and inclusive
clean energy transitions in emerging and developing countries and to continue efforts to swiftly implement the Just
Energy Transition Partnerships.

We are determined to promote affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy in Africa. With this objective,
under the Italian Presidency we look forward to continuing discussions on how the G7 can concretely advance and
contribute to Africa's industrial advancement and to its sustainable, resilient, and inclusive growth.

The connection between climate, environment and energy is critical to making progress towards our climate change
and environmental goals while implementing economically sustainable, just, and rapid transitions. Seizing the

                                                                              Page 11 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

opportunities presented by innovative technological solutions and the alignment of global financial flows to support
the goals of the Paris Agreement and the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework will be critical to
ensuring prosperity and environmental sustainability, while simultaneously fostering development and poverty
alleviation, especially in developing countries.

We underline the G7 role in advancing implementation of the CMA5 global effort to triple renewable energy capacity
globally and double the global average annual rate of energy efficiency improvements, globally by 2030,
considering national circumstances, and welcome the consensus reached at CMA5 calling on all Parties to
contribute to its achievement.

We need to play a key role in defining secure, sustainable, and affordable energy systems, ensuring just and
inclusive clean energy transitions. We therefore commit to achieving concrete steps forward in strategic areas.
Among these, we recognize the key role of renewables, including from sustainable biological origin, nuclear energy
for those who opt to use it, including advanced and small modular reactors, energy efficiency, methane emissions
reduction in line with the Global Methane Pledge, industrial de-carbonization, most innovative technologies such as
renewable and zero-emission hydrogen, and carbon management technologies. We will pursue secure, resilient,
affordable and sustainable supply chains for critical minerals and raw materials, including through the Minerals
Security Partnership (MSP) and MSP Forum, and pursue implementation of the Five Point Plan for Critical Minerals
Security adopted by G7 Climate Energy and Environment Ministers. We also underline the opportunities offered by
circular economy, including recycling and resource efficiency, as well as innovative technologies. Investing in
innovation should also help us in addressing the key topic of reducing GHG emissions in heavy-emitting sectors
and promoting the development of a circular economy.

Leveraging private sector financing as well as innovative financing mechanisms are important steps to support
energy transitions in developing countries, increase resources for adaptation and resilience and enable actions for
responding to loss and damage to assist developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects
of climate change, especially SIDS and LDCs.

The transition to a net zero-emissions, sustainable, climate resilient and nature positive, pollution free and circular
economy will necessarily need to involve all the members of society, to ensure just and inclusive transitions, leaving
no one behind. Women, youth, and Indigenous Peoples s tend to bear the brunt of climate change-related
disasters. In this context, we place particular emphasis on need to empower these societal sectors and include
them in efforts to address climate change and environmental degradation. We highlight the importance of nature-
based solutions in this context. Plastic pollution is a global problem that requires urgent attention. We look forward
to an ambitious and effective global agreement to end plastic pollution.

Biodiversity loss is an equally serious threat. Climate, biodiversity, and human health are interrelated and
interdependent. We recall our commitment to implement the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework fully
and swiftly and to achieve each of its goals and targets, which is the landmark plan to halt and reverse biodiversity
loss by 2030. We also underline the G7 role in advancing implementation of the CMA5 global effort halting and
reversing deforestation and forest degradation by 2030.

We will work to mobilise nature finance from all relevant sources and to align financial and fiscal flows, as
appropriate, including international development assistance, with the GBF. We also call on Multilateral
Development Banks (MDBs) to increase and report nature finance by CBD COP16. We welcome the Global
Stocktake Decision's recognition of the importance of nature for achieving the Paris Agreement temperature goal,
including through halting, and reversing deforestation and forest degradation by 2030.

Given the risk of a global water crisis and continued lack of universal access to water and sanitation, we call for
stronger collaboration at multilateral level in line with the UNEA-6 Resolution on Water. We welcome the UN
System-wide Strategy on Water and Sanitation and are committed to the implementation of the Water Action
Agenda as a key outcome of the UN Water Conference 2023. We also call for prompt appointment of a UN Special
Envoy on Water.

                                                                              Page 12 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

15. Global Health

Global health is a pre-requisite for sustainable development. Building on the lessons learned during the COVID -19
pandemic, we will continue to promote global health, knowing that health emergencies are a global challenge that
need a global response.

We support a reform of the Global Health Architecture fostering a more coordinated approach, strengthening
Pandemic Prevention Preparedness and Response (PPR) including sustainable financing for capacity
strengthening and for health emergency response, especially through the Pandemic Fund. We recognize the
importance and reiterate our commitment to reaching a successful, equitable outcome of the ongoing negotiations
for a new WHO convention, agreement, or other international instrument on pandemic PPR and targeted
amendments to the International Health Regulations 2005 (IHR 2005) by May 2024. Completing the negotiations in
time is critical to leverage political attention, strengthen future pandemic responses and improve equity.

We commit to redouble our efforts to advance universal health coverage, including by supporting countries to
restore access to essential health services and reduce mortality rates to be better than pre-pandemic levels by
2025. We also reaffirm our commitment to invest in resilient health systems, primary health care service delivery,
and a skilled health workforce including through the WHO Academy as essential to reclaiming lost ground due to
COVID-19 and promoting Universal Health Coverage as essential elements of pandemic preparedness.

We acknowledge that climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution are having a dramatic impact on global health
and both noncommunicable and infectious disease threats. We are therefore addressing these challenges in a
coherent and strategic manner, through the "One Health" approach that recognizes that the health of people is
linked to the health of animals, plants and our shared environment.

In this framework, we reaffirm that antimicrobial resistance is a key priority, and we will work closely for a successful
upcoming UN High Level Meeting on AMR in September 2024.

16. Gender Equality

We reiterate our commitment to give a new impetus to gender equality. We recall the Beijing Declaration and
Platform for Action and the outcome documents of its review conferences and confirm our determination to deliver
on the 2030 Agenda relevant Sustainable Development Goals.

We reaffirm the G7's continued global leadership on gender equality and the promotion and protection of the rights
of women and girls in all their diversity as well as LGBTQIA+ persons. We express our strong concern over the
global rollback of all women's and girls' rights, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, and the
disproportionate impact of conflict and crisis on them.

Gender equality and women's empowerment is a fundamental pre-requisite to eradicate poverty, to stimulate
prosperity and sustainable and inclusive growth, and to build peaceful, just, and inclusive societies. We recognize
that unpaid care and domestic work are major obstacles to the full, equal, and meaningful participation of women
and negatively impact women's economic empowerment by impairing their ability to work full-time or in leadership
positions. We reaffirm the significant value of the World Bank Invest in Childcare initiative and aim by 2035 to
support 200 million more women to join the workforce by investing in efforts to close the global childcare gap.

We must pursue gender equality as a cross cutting priority to promote and protect the rights of women and girls and
members of minority groups, including their ability to exercise their human rights, by ensuring freedom from all
forms of discrimination and gender-based violence. We need to strengthen their economic security and
empowerment by increasing and addressing barriers to their participation and building their resilience against the
impacts of climate change, including by advancing their access to jobs in green and blue industries critical to our
future and the future of our planet. We will promote comprehensive sexual and reproductive health and rights
(SRHR, including at the UN General Assembly and Summit of the Future.

                                                                              Page 13 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

Women and girls are disproportionately affected by conflicts and crises which can exacerbate existing gender
inequalities and expose women and girls, to heightened risks of violence, exploitation, and discrimination. The
involvement of women and girls in all areas related to the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts as
well as disaster risk reduction is crucial to creating and ensuring sustainable and inclusive peace and address the
root causes of conflicts. In line with UNSCR 1325 and subsequent Resolutions on Women Peace and Security
(WPS), we underscore the importance of women's full, equal, and meaningful participation and leadership in all
areas of policy decision-making spaces and tangible implementation, and through women's civil society
organizations, non-government partners, and throughout the political, security and development spheres. We
remain committed to protecting women and girls from sexual and gender-based violence before, during, and after
conflicts, ensuring accountability for perpetrators, and providing support and services to survivors.

17. Disaster and Risk Reduction

We reaffirm our commitment to strengthen and accelerate the implementation of the Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction and the "Early Warning for All" Initiative by scaling up international cooperation.

We acknowledge the interrelated causes and effects of disasters, particularly climate change-induced disasters, on
different aspects, including peace and stability, local, regional, and international security, health, education, gender
equality, and vulnerability. We renew our commitment to act ahead of disasters by working across the
Humanitarian, Development Peace Nexus. Our aim is to reduce risks, anticipate and prepare for disasters,
minimize the impacts of disasters on communities and infrastructure in order not to hamper development progress.

We stress the importance of the outcome of COP28 in terms of operationalizing new funding arrangements to
respond to loss and damage, including the fund. We welcome the pledges to the fund that have already been made
and we encourage further support, to be provided on a voluntary basis and from a wide variety of funding sources.
This is part of our wider commitment to assist those developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the
adverse effects of climate change.

18. Global Governance

We reiterate the significance of maintaining and strengthening the free and open international order based on the
rule of law, respecting the UN Charter, and the paramount importance of international and multilateral cooperation
in promoting peace, stability, and prosperity. We share the UN Secretary General's ambition for inclusive,
networked, and effective multilateralism, as outlined in the "Our Common Agenda" Report. We look forward to the
UN Summit of the Future as an opportunity to accelerate these efforts, to tackle global challenges and accelerate
progress on the SDGs.

To restore a sense of common purpose among UN Members States and to make international and multilateral
cooperation stronger, more effective, more inclusive, more democratic, more efficient and more transparent, we
commit to actively contribute to the Summit of the Future as an opportunity to foster dialogue and to find shared
solutions to common problems. Human rights as one of the founding pillars of the UN system will be our common
compass throughout the Pact for the Future. We welcome the latest report of the UN Secretary General on human
security. We are committed to working with all UN Member States to strengthen the roles of the UNSG as well as
the UNGA. We also recommit to the reform of the UNSC.

We reaffirm the need for strengthened international financial institutions and underscore the role of multilateral
developments banks (MDBs) in the SDGs achievement, including in crisis affected contexts. We support the
ongoing efforts for MDBs reform, including the World Bank Group (WBG) evolution roadmap, to better address
global challenges. In this respect, we look forward to the WBG and International Monetary Fund annual meetings.

We stress the key role of MDBs in addressing global challenges such as climate change, pandemics, and fragility
and conflict, which are critical to achieving poverty reduction and sustainable development that is inclusive and
resilient.

                                                                              Page 14 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

19. Conflict Prevention and Management, Support to UN Peace Operations

We renew our commitment to strengthening peacebuilding and conflict prevention efforts to address increasingly
complex and interconnected security challenges. We need to build resilient societies, uphold human rights, support
good governance, and invest in people to achieve sustainable peace. We condemn sexual and gender-based
violence, especially when related to armed conflict situations.

We highly value the role of the UN and support an integrated approach to peacebuilding and peacekeeping. We
support the Peacebuilding Commission in its role as a convener of relevant stakeholders and an advisory body to
other UN organs and we support the Peacebuilding Fund as a critical tool to help to ensure adequate financing for
conflict prevention and peacebuilding.

We reaffirm that the UN peacekeeping operations and special political missions are valuable tools to prevent
escalation and the recurrence of conflicts and to protect civilians where mandated to do so.

We further reaffirm our general support for the UN Secretary General's ''New Agenda for Peace'', "Action for
Peacekeeping" and "Action for Peacekeeping Plus" to reform and strengthen such operations, based on a conflict
prevention approach to crises. We will enhance capabilities and work to ensure the safety and security of those
deployed, for example through the UN Triangular Partnership Programme.

We underscore the importance of strengthening the global implementation of the Women, Peace and Security
(WPS), Youth, Peace and Security (YPS) and Children and Armed Conflict (CAAC) agendas.

20. A Global Resilient Cyberspace, Artificial Intelligence

We reiterate our commitment to an open, interoperable, reliable, and secure cyberspace. We highly value the role
of the Ise-Shima Cyber Group to define common ground.

While relying on the leadership of governments and international organizations, we recognize the importance of the
multistakeholder model, with the invaluable contribution of the private sector in promoting technological
development and of civil society in advancing a common understanding of threats and providing solutions to
improve cybersecurity.

As the international community is increasingly confronted with disruptive activities carried out through Information
and Communications Technology (ICT) systems, we reiterate that international law, including international
humanitarian law and international human rights law, apply in cyberspace. We call for the full implementation of
existing norms of responsible State behavior in cyberspace, and we encourage States to deepen their
understanding of how international law applies to cyberspace.

We condemn malicious cyber activity, and we will continue to work together at the national level and in multilateral
fora to increase accountability in cyberspace. We will increase our cooperation against malicious cyber activities,
including state-sponsored ones. We are determined to protect our democratic systems and critical infrastructures
from malicious cyber threats. We express our concern for the increasing number of ransomware attacks ,
particularly targeting hospitals and healthcare facilities, and in this regard we recall relevant norms of responsible
state behavior in cyberspace, which emphasize states' commitment to not knowingly allow their territory to be used
for internationally wrongful acts using ICT and to respond to appropriate requests to mitigate malicious ICT activity
emanating from their territory aimed at the critical infrastructure of another state. We welcome significant
international initiatives, such as the Counter Ransomware Initiative and the Pall Mall Process, which contribute to
increase awareness and improve oversight coordination.

We urge countries to enact legislation in line with the provisions of the Convention on Cybercrime of the Council of
Europe (Budapest Convention) and engage in accession to the treaty. We also urge countries to fully utilize the UN
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime as a tool to combat cybercrime.

                                                                              Page 15 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We call on the international community to be guided by the framework of responsible state behavior in cyberspace
to reduce risks to international peace and stability and make cyberspace a less contested domain. We underline the
importance of confidence building measures, international cooperation, and capacity building. We affirm our support
for the "Programme of action to advance responsible State behavior in the use of ICTs in the context of
international security", as the permanent and action-oriented mechanism to hold discussions on cybersecurity at the
UN from 2025 onward.

We reaffirm the G7 support to Ukraine's cyber resilience, and we welcome multilateral initiatives aimed at providing
assistance, such as the Tallinn Mechanism.

We will continue to coordinate and, where possible, unite our efforts to assist countries to improve their capacity to
address the multiple challenges of cybersecurity and resilience. Exchanging information on respective national
projects may help identify best practices. We will be inspired by a demand driven approach and aim to fully
integrate cybersecurity into digital development, as highlighted by the Accra Call for Cyber Resilient Development.
To this end, we will continue to cooperate where it is relevant with International Financial Institutions, for instance
the World Bank, and the private sector.

Malicious cyber activities are disrupting critical services in G7 countries including hospitals, energy companies and
water companies and costing our economies billions of dollars in disruptions. We commit to taking concrete steps to
improve our collective cyber resilience.

Considering the key and complementary role played by high-level policy makers and the National Agencies for
Cybersecurity in ensuring a safe cyberspace and in fostering international collaboration at a policy and technical
level, we also welcome the first meeting at G7 level, scheduled in Rome on 16-17 May, and we look forward to the
outcome of their discussions We resolve to keep analyzing the multifaceted applications of artificial intelligence
and other new and emerging technologies, in such a way as to strike an effective balance between the
advantageous uses for people and the need to mitigate the potential negative impacts in certain domains, including
cyberspace. With this regard, we acknowledge the importance of advancing our efforts to ensure safe, secure and
trustworthy AI, which is human-centric and human rights-based, including through advancing the outcomes of the
Hiroshima AI Process, and foster interoperability between AI governance frameworks to support our common
vision.

As new technologies are defining the future of our societies, we endorse the UN General Assembly resolution
"Seizing the Opportunities for Safe, Secure and Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence Systems for Sustainable
Development" that was adopted by consensus and co-sponsored by 123 countries. We will also endeavor to
provide contributions to the Global Digital Compact and WSIS+20 Review and the UN Pact for the Future, in order
to protect an open, free, secure and inclusive Internet for future generations, governed through multi-stakeholder
processes, and by protecting the ability for all to share information and communicate freely and securely, making
sure the voices of younger generations, emerging economies and developing countries are properly heard.

We recognize the nexus between AI and cybersecurity, and we commit to countering the risks posed to
cybersecurity by AI. We also underscore the importance of ensuring the cybersecurity of AI systems and note the
publication of the Guidelines for secure AI system development.

21. Countering hybrid threats, including foreign information manipulation and interference

Malign foreign influence operations, including malicious cyber activities, and foreign information manipulation and
interference (FIMI), are a growing challenge to democratic societies around the world, threatening to undermine
democratic values, human rights, governmental processes, political stability, and international partnerships. These
operations aim at misleading and deceiving our citizens, interfering in our democratic processes, destabilizing our
governments and democratic institutions, and undermining our shared values, creating, and exploiting cultural and
societal frictions, as well as negatively affecting our ability to conduct foreign and security policy. FIMI threatens to
destabilize the very fabric of our rules-based international system and is exacerbated by the exploitation of
emerging technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence (AI).

                                                                              Page 16 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We are committed to addressing the potential risk of the misuse of new technologies for purposes of disinformation,
and the role of AI in FIMI, especially in the context of forthcoming elections.

AI has the potential to strengthen democracy by advancing resilience, openness, civic engagement and
participation, and access to government services and information. But AI can also be used as a tool to undermine
democracy, including through voter suppression, information manipulation and curtailment of civic engagement. We
are concerned with the potential for authoritarian states and non-state actors to misuse current and emerging
technologies to undermine democracy and confidence in elections and to erode the information environment.

FIMI negatively affects the ability of citizens to take rational, informed decisions, which lies at the very heart of our
democratic institutions and aims at undermining confidence in democratic governments and societies.
Disinformation can be used to polarize society; it often supports violent extremist activities and is fuelled by
malicious foreign players. Online disinformation campaigns are being widely used by a range of malign actors to
create or exacerbate tensions.

State and non-state actors are increasingly adopting hybrid tactics, also through their proxies. In particular, Russia,
since beginning its war of aggression against Ukraine, has been augmenting military efforts on the ground with
hybrid tactics, including cyberattacks and foreign information manipulation and interference. We condemn the
widespread use of FIMI and AI by the Russian Government and its proxies to support its war of aggression against
Ukraine and fuel further tensions globally. Building our resolve to promote information resilience, we will enhance
coordination to establish a common operating picture and develop coordinated responses to information
manipulation. A whole-of-society and whole-of-government effort is required to combat FIMI and foster information
integrity.

We are committed to protecting our information environment and democratic values against any attempt of foreign
manipulation. We commit to championing free and independent media at home and around the world and promote
pluralism and freedom of expression. Together we seek to strengthen public resilience to and awareness about
FIMI, through education, including digital, media and information literacy initiatives and awareness-raising
campaigns, also addressing gendered disinformation.

We plan to strengthen our coordinated effort to better prevent, detect, respond to, and mitigate FIMI threats,
addressing the impact of hybrid threats at the earliest stage possible. As billions of citizens will cast their ballots
globally in 2024, the protection of free and fair elections from foreign interference is a central focus of the G7
Agenda.

We also call on tech companies, in particular social media platforms, to intensify their efforts to prevent and counter
FIMI campaigns and to reduce the potential abuse of AI technology for this purpose, also by increasing their
transparency.

Through the G7 Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM) we are strengthening our coordination to identify and respond
to diverse and evolving threats to our democracies. We are determined to intensify our efforts, to protect our
democratic systems and open societies from foreign information manipulation and interference, including through
sharing information and analysis, and identifying opportunities for coordinated response.

22. Digital and Transnational Repression

Advances in surveillance technology, including AI and commercial spyware, can enable foreign governments and
their proxies to monitor, track, and target individuals more effectively and invasively. We are committed to
countering the misuse of technology to target human rights defenders, journalists, perceived political opponents,
and other civil society members.

Transnational repression (TNR), which involves reaching across state borders to intimidate, silence, attack, and/or
murder dissidents, human rights activists, and others for peacefully exercising their human rights and fundamental
freedoms, has a detrimental impact to free speech, freedom of expression and other fundamental freedoms. It is

                                                                              Page 17 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

one of the most harmful manifestations of authoritarian governments that aims to export repressive forms of
governance extraterritorially. We strongly condemn the targeting of activists, critics and journalists in this respect.

23. Arms Control, Disarmament and Non-Proliferation, Outer Space

We remain firmly committed to uphold the international non-proliferation and disarmament architecture. We intend
to maintain and strengthen disarmament and non-proliferation efforts for a more secure, stable, and safer world and
endorse the statement of the G7 Non-Proliferation Directors' Group.

We are greatly concerned by Russia's continuing war of aggression against Ukraine and its irresponsible nuclear
rhetoric and actions, North Korea's and Iran's continued advancement of nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.
These developments pose serious challenges for international peace and security and require our united resolve in
defense of the global disarmament and non-proliferation regimes.

Recalling the G7 Leaders' Hiroshima Vision on Nuclear Disarmament, we reaffirm our commitment to the ultimate
goal of a world without nuclear weapons with undiminished security for all, achieved through a realistic, pragmatic,
and responsible approach.

In this spirit, we remain resolved to strengthen the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and
advance the NPT's implementation across all three of its mutually reinforcing pillars. We reaffirm the centrality of
the NPT as the cornerstone of the nuclear non-proliferation regime and the foundation for the pursuit of nuclear
disarmament and peaceful uses of nuclear technology.

We underline the urgent need to bring the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) into force and to
provide sufficient resources to ensure the continued operation and the long-term sustainability of all elements of the
CTBT verification system. Pending the entry into force of the Treaty, we call on all states that have not yet done so
to declare new or maintain existing moratoriums on nuclear weapon test explosions or any other nuclear
explosions. We deeply regret Russia's withdrawal of its ratification of the Treaty and we are gravely concerned by
Russian statements with respect to nuclear explosive testing. We urge Moscow to continue to adhere to its
moratorium on nuclear tests.

We call for the immediate commencement of long-overdue negotiations of a treaty banning the production of fissile
material for use in nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices (FMCT) while urging all states that have not
yet done so to declare and maintain voluntary moratoria on the production of such material.

We adhere to the highest standards of nuclear safety, security and non-proliferation. We underscore the IAEA's
crucial role in upholding the international non-proliferation architecture, enhancing nuclear safety and security, and
safeguards, and promoting peaceful uses of nuclear technology for the benefit of all Member States. We recall the
G7 Leaders' commitment to evaluate measures to reduce reliance on civil nuclear-related goods from Russia and to
assist countries seeking to diversify their supplies. We support Japan's safe, transparent and science-based
process to responsibly manage the discharge of Advanced Liquid Processing System treated water and in
proactively coordinating with scientists and partners as well as the IAEA.

The G7 is committed to working with all States to further identify and implement measures to minimize the risk of
nuclear weapons use and to strengthen arms control. We recall the Joint Statement of the Leaders of the Five
Nuclear-Weapon States issued on January 3, 2022, on Preventing Nuclear War and Avoiding Arms Races, and
reaffirm that a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. We call on Russia to recommit in words and
deeds to the principles enshrined in that Statement. We welcome the transparency of G7 nuclear-weapon States in
providing data on their nuclear forces and the objective size of their nuclear arsenals. We call on others that have
not yet done so to follow suit.

We reiterate our deep regret over Russia's purported suspension of the New START Treaty and we call on Russia
to return to its full implementation and to engage with the U.S. on reducing nuclear risks. We are also concerned
about China's ongoing and accelerating expansion of its nuclear arsenal, and development of increasingly

                                                                              Page 18 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

sophisticated delivery systems, without transparency including providing data and objective size of its nuclear
arsenal or good faith arms control and risk reductions measures. The G7 urges China to engage in concrete
strategic risk reduction discussions with the U.S. to promote stability through greater transparency of China's
nuclear weapon policies, plans, and capabilities.

We underscore the importance of disarmament and non-proliferation education, while encouraging other leaders,
youth and others to also visit Hiroshima and Nagasaki. We recognize the important role that f conventional arms
control, confidence-building measures and regional risk reduction have in reducing the risk of armed escalation or
miscalculation, improving trust and transparency, and promoting strategic stability between states.

Conventional weapons continue to be used for regional coercion, raising international tensions, and in acts of
military aggression that have resulted in disproportionate civilian casualties. This highlights the urgency of
implementation agreements and commitments relating to conventional arms control and disarmament that take into
account humanitarian factors.

Reaffirming our strong commitment to effective multilateral action against the proliferation of all weapons of mass
destruction and their means of delivery, we underline the need for the universalization and full implementation of the
Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) and the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (BTWC).

We will actively seek to advance efforts in the working group on the strengthening of the BTWC to examine and
develop concrete measures to enhance the implementation of the Convention.

We recognize the high priority of addressing biological threats worldwide as an utmost priority. With rapidly
advancing technology and more acute biological risks, it is crucial to ensure that biological research, development,
and innovation are conducted in a safe, secure, responsible, transparent, and sustainable manner. Strengthening
domestic measures, engaging international organizations, academia, and the private sector remains paramount to
promote and establish effective regulatory biosafety and biosecurity measures for the life sciences and global
health.

We reaffirm the key importance of addressing biosecurity challenges in the African continent, strengthening
preparedness, and empowering the African scientific community, involving women and youth. We recognize the
important progress made through the Signature Initiative to Mitigate Biological Threats in Africa (SIMBA), a flagship
effort pf the G7-led Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, to
strengthen biosafety and biosecurity, national frameworks, surveillance and epidemic intelligence and non-
proliferation capacities in Africa.

In this overall effort, we will work together across the G7, the G7-led 31-member Global Partnership against the
spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, the BTWC, the WHO and other appropriate international
fora to raise the bar globally on biosafety and biosecurity.

We commit to maintaining and updating export controls on materials, technology and research that could be used to
develop weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, including through multilateral export control
regimes and in cooperation with all responsible international actors.

We reaffirm the key role of the G7 Global Partnership in addressing threats posed by the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction and CBRN materials and supporting vulnerable countries around the world in to build security
capacity to better mitigate all manner of CBRN threats. We welcome the launch of the Global Partnership's new
initiative to counter WMD disinformation.

Working with partners, we e will continue to assess the risks posed by exports of rapidly advancing dual-use
technologies. Where necessary and according to our respective legal frameworks, we will cooperate and promote
efforts to implement export controls to address risks to international security.

                                                                              Page 19 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We celebrate in 2024 the tenth anniversary of the International Partnership for Nuclear Disarmament Verification
(IPNDV), in which all G7 members participate. The development of realistic processes and technologies by IPNDV
will help ensure future agreements contain robust verification provisions.

Space-related services, data and activities are increasingly key for the functioning of our economies and the
implementation of public policies for the welfare of our citizens. However, we see globally an intensification of
threats and the development of capabilities directed at disrupting the peaceful use of space.

We reiterate the importance of upholding the existing legal framework for activities in outer space, notably the
Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the
Moon and Other Celestial Bodies (the "Outer Space Treaty"). We remain committed to fostering international
cooperation, transparency, and confidence-building measures to promote responsible behavior with the goal of
improving space security for all states. In parallel, we will also remain vigilant and invest in the resilience of space-
related services against potentially hostile activities.

We affirm the obligation of all States Parties to fully comply with the Outer Space Treaty, including not to place in
orbit around the Earth any objects carrying nuclear weapons or any other kinds of weapons of mass destruction.

24. Countering terrorism and transnational crime

We condemn terrorism in all its forms, and we reiterate our determination to protect freedom and security in our
societies, upholding democracy, rule of law, respect for human rights including the right to be free from arbitrary or
unlawful interference with privacy freedom of expression and freedom of religion or belief.

Terrorist networks know no borders and countering terrorism requires a strong collective and internationally aligned
approach that includes combating the financing of terrorism and terrorist propaganda. We need to recognize and
tackle new threats emanating from malign actors' use of emerging technologies, such as drones and artificial
intelligence, while the risk of chemical, biological, and radiological attacks remain a serious threat. The potential
use of technologies to counter terrorism and violent extremism must be recognized as well.

Countering terrorism needs a holistic approach, aimed also at preventing violent extremism. It is imperative that we
prevent radicalization to violence online and offline, in prison as well as in societies, through work with civil society,
women-led organizations, local leaders and communities. We should work to promote rehabilitation and
reintegration efforts for former terrorists in order to reintegrate them back into society with a reduced risk of
recidivism. We intend to step up information sharing and international cooperation, promoting capacity building
domestically and with partners, including in border management. All our efforts are based on respect for human
rights and the principles of the rule of law.

Organized crime is also a major threat to our societies and citizens and also knows no borders. Organized crime
can take advantage of the insecurity, instability and conflicts caused by terrorism and it can also be a way that
terrorist groups support their activities. Terrorism can leverage organized crime, too. Human trafficking, arms
smuggling, drug trafficking, crimes that affect the environment, trafficking of cultural property, money laundering and
corruption can find a fertile ground when exploiting war and conflicts. Capacity building in justice and security
measures to counter the illicit economy can help to foster inclusive and peaceful societies.

We reaffirm our commitment to fight organized crime and its illegal profits, focusing on new risks such as
cybercrime. Trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants have become major sources of income for organized
crime, together with drug trafficking. We are firmly committed to stop the criminal exploitation of vulnerable peoples,
breaking the business model of organized criminal groups.

We also reaffirm our commitment to fight against the illicit production and distribution of synthetic drugs including
fentanyl. Trafficking of illicit fentanyl and other synthetic drugs props up large, adaptable, and resilient transnational
criminal organizations that operate across the globe with the financial means and capacity to corrupt society,
undermine governance, and weaken government institutions around the world. Together, we reaffirm our

                                                                              Page 20 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

commitment to countering the production, distribution, and sale of illicit narcotics; to sharing threat information and
engaging in joint investigations and enforcement efforts; to scheduling precursor chemicals and other drugs, in
accordance with the recommendations of the United Nations and other international entities; to collectively
coordinating efforts with key international partners, especially with countries where synthetic drugs are produced; to
participating in multilateral fora, such as the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats, that unite countries
and key institutions in fighting the scourge of deadly drugs; and to advancing public health interventions and
services to those who need it. Individually and collectively, we will crack down on the global criminal networks that
fuel overdose deaths, disrupt the illicit financial mechanisms that support these networks; seize deadly drugs before
they enter our communities; and deliver life-saving medication and care. We are ready to work with other
governments to tackle these transnational challenges and to support the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug
Threats.

We welcome the valuable input of the G7 Roma-Lyon Group's work on preventing and combating terrorism and
transnational organized crime.

25. Fight against Corruption

We recognize that corruption and related illicit finance and proceeds of crime drain public resources, can often fuel
organized crime and undermine democratic governance. Corruption and illicit finance also undermine progress
across all the Sustainable Development Goals.

We reaffirm the fundamental role that the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) and its
supporting bodies play in the global fight against corruption. We will strive to further support and enhance the
effectiveness of its Implementation Review Mechanism, especially with a view to its next review phase.

We also reaffirm our commitment to timely and effective implementation of the FATF standards on transparency of
beneficial ownership of legal persons and legal arrangements, underscoring the importance of accountability tools
that will deny corrupt actors access to our territories and our financial systems.

We also recognize the challenges faced by some developing countries in meeting international standards designed
to combat corruption and illicit finance, and we encourage the international financial institutions to coordinate and
increase their efforts to support countries in their efforts across their operations, particularly in fragile and conflict
affected countries.

26. Threats to maritime security

We reiterate our commitment to promoting a cooperative system of international governance for the ocean and
seas and to maintaining the rules-based maritime order based on international law, in particular the UN Convention
on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the principles of territorial integrity, sovereignty, peaceful resolution of
disputes, fundamental freedoms and human rights. In this context, we recognize the importance of the role of
international courts and tribunals including the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea.

We firmly reiterate our condemnation for acts of piracy and armed robbery at sea, terrorism and transnational
organized crime in the maritime domain, trafficking of human beings, smuggling of migrants, trafficking of weapons
and narcotics, illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing, and other illegal maritime activities. We reaffirm
the importance of national and regional ownership in pursuing the fight against illegal activities at sea.

VI. TACKLING REGIONAL ISSUES

27. Western Balkans

We reaffirm our shared commitment to the security, economic prosperity, and European perspective of the six
Western Balkans countries as a crucial investment for peace and stability. We emphasize the importance of
advancing the necessary internal reforms, particularly on rule of law, including tackling organized crime, illicit
finance, and corruption.

                                                                              Page 21 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We fully support further progress on regional cooperation and integration, including by implementing the Common
Regional Market, and we encourage local political elites to make decisive progress on regional reconciliation. To
this aim, we call on Kosovo and Serbia to implement without further delay the Agreement on the Path to
Normalization and its Implementation Annex adopted in 2023. We urge both sides to engage constructively in the
framework of the EU-facilitated dialogue, refraining from provocations, inflammatory rhetoric, and uncoordinated
actions.

We firmly reject any attempt from internal or external actors to undermine the sovereignty, territorial integrity and
multiethnic character of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We fully support the executive mandate of the EUFOR ALTHEA
operation to support the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina in maintaining a safe and secure environment in the
country.

We urge all parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina to put aside divisive and inflammatory rhetoric, to avoid any act that
could destabilize the country and to focus on internal reforms that would move the country closer to realizing its
Euro-Atlantic aspirations. We welcome the European Council's decision in March 2024 to open negotiations for
Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to the European Union. We support the mandate of High Representative
Christian Schmidt.

28. South Caucasus

We urge Armenia and Azerbaijan to remain fully committed to the peace process to achieve a dignified and durable
peace based on the principles of non-use of force, respect for sovereignty, the inviolability of borders, and territorial
integrity. We recall the Joint Statement issued by the sides on December 7th, 2023, and encourage them to uphold
that spirit of cooperation in their future interactions. Further escalation would be unacceptable.

We call on Azerbaijan to fully comply with its obligations under international humanitarian law and encourage
appropriate steps to ensure the safe, dignified, and sustainable return of refugees and displaced persons wishing to
come back to their homes.

The G7 and its members are ready to facilitate further constructive contacts at all levels, notably within the
established negotiating frameworks provided by the EU and the USA, whose enduring efforts we commend.

We reiterate the importance of the commitment to the Alma Ata 1991 Declaration through which Armenia and
Azerbaijan recognize each other's territorial integrity and sovereignty. We encourage greater regional cooperation
and the re-opening of all borders, including the border between Armenia and Turkiye.

29. Central Asian countries

We remain resolved to support the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and the right of self-determination
of the Central Asian countries.

We are committed to enhancing our cooperation with the Central Asian countries to tackle regional challenges,
including the consequences of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the enduring impact of the situation in
Afghanistan, the regional terrorist threat, as well as managing water resources and climate change and promoting
human rights and fundamental freedoms.

We encourage the further strengthening of regional cooperation, especially in the field of connectivity and
infrastructure, including the Middle Corridor, to improve ease of trade between the Central Asian countries, bolster
global supply chains, foster trade, forge investment and energy links, provide economic diversification and enhance
resilience, while upholding labor rights and environmental protection.

We will continue to support the implementation of the socio-economic and political reforms announced in the
Central Asian countries. Throughout the region, we support the expansion of civic and political participation, the
strengthening of the rule of law, and the safeguarding of human rights.

                                                                               Page 22 of 23
     G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                            CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

30. Afghanistan

We remain committed to supporting the people of Afghanistan. We condemn the continued and systemic abuses of
human rights and fundamental freedoms by the Taliban, notably of the political, economic and social rights of
women and girls, as well as the rights of members of ethnic and religious minorities. We deeply regret that the
Taliban has taken no serious step to initiate an inclusive political process with fellow Afghans regarding the future of
the country. Peace and stability in Afghanistan will require the establishment of an inclusive and representative
political process which allows Afghanistan to fulfill its international obligations and includes full, equal, safe, and
meaningful participation of Afghan women, upholding human rights and fundamental freedoms.

We intend to remain vigilant against the risk of Afghanistan serving as a base for hosting or exporting terrorism to
other countries.

The safe and secure departure of all Afghans wishing to leave the country must be guaranteed, as well as
humanitarian access and the possibility to effectively provide humanitarian aid.

We support the mandate of the Special Representative of the Secretary General, the UN Assistance Mission in
Afghanistan (UNAMA) and the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan.

We are committed to the swift appointment of a UN Special Envoy in line with the recommendations of the UN's
Independent Assessment and as mandated by Security Council Resolution 2721.

VII. COOPERATION WITH LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

Stronger cooperation with countries in Latin America and the Caribbean is of paramount importance as we have
common values and shared interests. We commit to further partner with the Region to address global challenges,
including by protecting the international system based on international cooperation and international law, tackling
natural disasters and climate change, countering transnational organized crime, and promoting trade and
investments aimed at improving socio-economic resilience.

31. Haiti

We express our solidarity to the Haitian population, which is suffering from unprecedented levels of gang violence.
We reiterate our support to the ongoing international efforts aimed at strengthening public institutions and law
enforcement, as well as combating criminal gangs, whose illegal activities have led to a marked deterioration of the
security and humanitarian situation of the country.

We encourage the international community to scale up its humanitarian support to the Haitian population. We note
the urgent need to protect women and children in Haiti, who are suffering disproportionately from the recent and
rapid escalation in violence.

We welcome UNSCR 2699, authorizing the deployment of a Multinational Security Support (MSS) mission, in close
cooperation and coordination with the Government of Haiti, to support the efforts of the Haitian National Police to
re-establish security in Haiti and build security conditions conducive to holding free and fair elections. We commend
the Government of Kenya for its readiness to lead the mission. Every effort should be made to expeditiously provide
robust financial support to the mission so that it may deploy as soon as possible. The people of Haiti cannot wait.

We also welcome UNSCR 2700, which renews the sanctions regime for Haiti for an additional year. The sanctions
regime promotes accountability by extending the territorial arms embargo and ability to sanction individuals and
entities who are responsible for, or complicit in, actions that threaten the peace and security in Haiti.

We commend the outcome of the CARICOM Summit held in Kingston, Jamaica, on March 11 and the commitment
taken by Haitian stakeholders to implement an inclusive transitional governance arrangement.

                                                                              Page 23 of 23
    G7 FOREIGN MINISTERS' MEETING COMMUNIQUE (CAPRI, APRIL 19, 2024) ADDRESSING GLOBAL
                           CHALLENGES, FOSTERING PARTNERSHIPS

We support the ongoing efforts of the UN Integrated Office in Haiti and call on the political actors to bridge their
differences and commit in a forward-looking, transparent, and fair national dialogue, which is essential to stabilize
the Country.

We reiterate the importance that the process to find lasting solutions to the ongoing security and humanitarian crisis
be Haitian-led and owned.

32. Nicaragua

We call on the Nicaraguan government to end its human rights violations as well as widespread repression and
related violations and abuses against civil society, Indigenous Peoples, academics, students, the independent
press, and political and religious actors.

We urge authorities to release immediately and unconditionally all political prisoners and abide by their international
obligations. We condemn the closure of CSOs and the systematic attacks on religious institutions and
organizations, including the Catholic Church and its ministers, many of whom have been arrested and then sent into
exile, along with hundreds of political actors and civil society members and moved to strip them of their citizenship.
We call on the Government to restore their citizenship under international conventions.

We further call on the Nicaraguan Government to hold free and fair elections, allowing the members of the
opposition to exercise their rights to the freedom of assembly, and to free speech.

33. Venezuela

We are deeply concerned about the ongoing political, economic, and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. We call on
Venezuela to swiftly implement the Barbados Agreements of October 2023, with particular regard to electoral
guarantees, and the deployment of international electoral observations missions in order to ensure free and fair
elections.

We are deeply worried by the recent decisions to prevent members of the opposition from exercising their core
political rights and the continued detention and harassment of opposition members. We call for the immediate
release of political prisoners still detained.

We follow closely developments between Venezuela and Guyana over the Essequibo region and we demand
Venezuela to refrain from destabilizing initiatives. The matter must be resolved in line with international law.


Load-Date: April 20, 2024


  
