

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
      Zayo Expands Managed Edge Offerings through Strategic Partnership with Security Service Edge Leader
                       Netskope The new collaboration brings industry-dominating se....




 Zayo Expands Managed Edge Offerings through Strategic Partnership with
   Security Service Edge Leader Netskope; The new collaboration brings
    industry-dominating secure service edge (SSE) protection to Zayo's
              comprehensive edge-to-core-to-cloud solutions
                                                    Business Wire
                                      March 6, 2024 Wednesday 1:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 858 words
Dateline: DENVER

Body


Zayo Group , a leading global communications infrastructure provider, today announced its partnership with Secure
Access Service Edge (SASE) leader Netskope. The partnership brings Netskope's best-in-class Security Service
Edge (SSE) capabilities to Zayo's Managed Edge portfolio to deliver the most robust network protection and
application performance for Zayo customers - from edge to core to cloud.

According to Gartner, by 2025, 80% of enterprises will have adopted a strategy to unify web, cloud services, and
private application access using a SASE/SSE architecture. But to fully realize the benefits of SASE, seamless
integration of security, networking, and performance is essential. Now enhanced with Netskope - which was named
a leader in the 2023 Gartner SSE Magic Quadrant - Zayo's Managed Edge provides industry-leading management
and security to defend against network security threats, meet regulatory compliance requirements, and enable
seamless and scalable hybrid work.

"Every month, Zayo defends organizations of all sizes from data breaches, ransomware, downtime, and disaster
by securing their core networks, the edge, and the cloud," said Michael McKerley, Senior Vice President of
Managed Services at Zayo. "Our partnership with Netskope is enhancing how we secure our managed edge-to-
core-to-cloud solution even further. Zayo brings the largest independent fiber network, customized management,
and AI-driven network observability. Netskope brings a feature-rich, industry-leading secure service edge. The
result is an enhanced SASE offering with stronger security for the most demanding cybersecurity needs."

"As businesses continue to adopt cloud technologies, secure access and advanced data protection becomes
paramount," said Dave Rogers, Senior Vice President of Global Alliances and Channel Sales at Netskope. "A well-
designed SASE solution enables businesses to strike the right balance between staying secure and getting work
done, without trade-offs. We are pleased to partner with Zayo to offer the best in managed SSE capabilities, which
provide the security needed for successful SASE."

In addition, Zayo has enhanced its software-defined wide-area network (SD-WAN) with co-hosted gateways that
provide a direct, private, and secure link into the cloud, legacy network infrastructure, and all locations. With these

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 3
        Zayo Expands Managed Edge Offerings through Strategic Partnership with Security Service Edge Leader
                         Netskope The new collaboration brings industry-dominating se....

enhancements, Zayo's Managed Edge provides a complete, co-managed, end-to-end networking solution with
comprehensive connectivity, security, monitoring, and management.

Why This Matters:
    •      Location integration: Zayo's Managed Edge allows customers to seamlessly integrate legacy network
           infrastructure, on-net, and off-net locations, bringing off-net buildings into the Zayo fiber network.
    •      Reduced network costs: Zayo's Managed Edge reduces cloud egress fees and eliminates pricey network
           builds. Zayo's co-hosted gateways integrate with fiber into private cloud gateways to create a true edge-to-
           core-to-cloud solution.
    •      Optimized network performance: Zayo's co-hosted gateways ensure reliable application and cloud
           performance by seamlessly integrating with Zayo's fiber network for private, always-available enterprise
           network connections.

"Organizations are often hesitant to utilize SASE and SD-WAN because transitioning from their prior network
connectivity can be difficult and cumbersome," continued McKerley. "This partnership and the SD-WAN
enhancements we've made give our customers the best of all worlds. We're thrilled to be able to offer our
customers an efficient network that's secure, stable, scalable, and sustainable."

Zayo's newest Managed SASE solution and SD-WAN enhancements are immediately available via Zayo's
Managed Edge solution. For more information, visit: https://www.zayo.com/services/managed-edge/ .

About Zayo

For more than 15 years, Zayo has empowered some of the world's largest and most innovative companies to
connect what's next for their business. Zayo's future-ready network spans over 17.5 million fiber miles and 142,500
route miles. Zayo's tailored connectivity and edge solutions enable carriers, cloud providers, data centers, schools,
and enterprises to deliver exceptional experiences, from core to cloud to edge. Discover how Zayo connects what's
next at www.zayo.com and follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter .

About Netskope

Netskope, a global SASE leader, helps organizations apply zero trust principles and AI/ML innovations to protect
data and defend against cyber threats. Fast and easy to use, the Netskope platform provides optimized access and
real-time security for people, devices, and data anywhere they go. Netskope helps customers reduce risk,
accelerate performance, and get unrivaled visibility into any cloud, web, and private application activity. Thousands
of customers trust Netskope and its powerful NewEdge network to address evolving threats, new risks, technology
shifts, organizational and network changes, and new regulatory requirements. Learn how Netskope helps
customers be ready for anything on their SASE journey, visit netskope.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240306365394/en/


CONTACT: Zayo Group

press@zayo.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: March 7, 2024

                                                                                             Page 3 of 3
  Zayo Expands Managed Edge Offerings through Strategic Partnership with Security Service Edge Leader
                   Netskope The new collaboration brings industry-dominating se....



