

                                                                                               Page 1 of 3
     Beyond Cyber Protection Leadership: Acronis’ Environmental and Social 2023 ESG Report Revealed The
                      report presents a comprehensive overview of Acronis’ ESG achi....




  Beyond Cyber Protection Leadership: Acronis’ Environmental and Social
 2023 ESG Report Revealed; The report presents a comprehensive overview
         of Acronis’ ESG achievements, strategies, and initiatives
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                            February 15, 2024 Thursday 5:15 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE CRITERIA
Length: 852 words

Body

SHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland, Feb. 15, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Acronis, a global leader in cyber protection,
today announced the release of its 2023 Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report detailing the
company’s performance and achievements in 2023 and charting a course for future positive impact. The 2023
report highlights the company's outstanding performance and achievements throughout 2023 but also underscores
Acronis' dedication to making a meaningful difference in the world. It highlights the company’s sustainable business
practices including the results of a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions review and extensive materiality assessment.
It notes important topics for Acronis stakeholders, setting the foundation to further reduce the company’s carbon
footprint. It also presents alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals by identifying specific
areas where the company is making an impact.

Acronis has consistently championed responsible practices, aiming to minimize its ecological footprint. Beyond this,
the company has actively engaged with the communities it operates in, fostering positive impacts through volunteer-
driven environmental days and IT education. Notably, Acronis has extended its support to under-served
communities, particularly through building schools and fitting out computer labs, setting up educational programs
that contribute to social upliftment.

The company also extends its environmental and educational programs to partners, helping service providers to
develop their own CSR programs through participating in joint initiatives and with the help of the newly launched
CSR in a Box. Acronis partners are able to reduce their own carbon footprint through deploying Acronis Cyber
Protect Cloud to more workloads, thus consolidating and minimizing the number of solutions required to ensure
complete cyber protection of their customers.

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
        Beyond Cyber Protection Leadership: Acronis’ Environmental and Social 2023 ESG Report Revealed The
                         report presents a comprehensive overview of Acronis’ ESG achi....

“As we strive to become a more sustainable enterprise, our journey involves continuously expanding our thinking,
discovering fresh opportunities, and understanding the interconnectedness between our actions and the broader
world,” said Ezequiel Steiner, CEO, Acronis. “We take responsibility for creating value for all our stakeholders by
embedding environmental, social, and governance considerations firmly into our business operations.”

Key highlights from Acronis’ 2023 ESG report include:

Environment
    •      Conducted the first GHG emissions assessment and developed an inventory management plan with the
           data to be used as a baseline for sustainability target setting.
    •      Launched the Acronis Cyber Foundation Ambassadors Program, mobilizing around 300 employees for
           environmental activities such as beach or forest cleanups
    •      Held six environmental days with employees’ support and collecting 2,500kg of waste.

Social
    •      Engaged in an ongoing humanitarian aid response providing support to over 3,500 victims of natural
           disasters and war conflicts through fundraising, humanitarian aid, and facilitating education.
    •      Extended focus on educational activities, both regarding community development and cybersecurity
           education, by building schools, setting up computer labs, and running IT training classes, impacting over
           33,500 people.
    •      Launched a vendor independent MSP academy as a hub for comprehensive business and cybersecurity
           education.

Governance
    •      Developed a procurement information hub and extended supplier questionnaire.
    •      Launched a public Acronis Trust Center providing visibility on certifications, compliance, and security
           information.
    •      Launched CSR in a Box – an opportunity for our partners and customers to launch their own ESG
           initiatives.

For more information, please download the full Acronis 2023 ESG report here: https://www.acronis.com/en-
us/sustainability-governance/

About AcronisAcronis unifies data protection and cybersecurity to deliver integrated, automated cyber protection
that solves the safety, accessibility, privacy, authenticity, and security (SAPAS) challenges of the modern digital
world. With flexible deployment models that fit the demands of service providers and IT professionals, Acronis
provides superior cyber protection for data, applications, and systems with innovative next-generation antivirus,
backup, disaster recovery, and endpoint protection management solutions powered by AI. With advanced anti-
malware powered by cutting-edge machine intelligence and blockchain based data authentication technologies,
Acronis protects any environment - from cloud to hybrid to on premises - at a low and predictable cost.

Acronis is a Swiss company, founded in Singapore. Celebrating two decades of innovation, Acronis has 1,800+
employees in 45 locations. Acronis Cyber Protect solution is available in 26 languages in over 150 countries and is
used by 20,000+ service providers to protect over 750,000 businesses.

Media Contact:Julia CarfagnoJulia.Carfagno@acronis.com

                                                                                              Page 3 of 3
    Beyond Cyber Protection Leadership: Acronis’ Environmental and Social 2023 ESG Report Revealed The
                     report presents a comprehensive overview of Acronis’ ESG achi....

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/cf4656bb-2794-4088-b205-49bc1cfafe07

Acronis’ Environmental and Social 2023 ESG Report

Acronis’ 2023 ESG Report


Load-Date: February 15, 2024


  
