

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 8
   Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the George Washington University
                                 Law School Business & Finance Law Program




 Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at
  the George Washington University Law School Business & Finance Law
                                 Program
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          January 18, 2024 Thursday 5:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 5374 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The U.S. Department of the Treasury issued the following news release:

As Prepared for Delivery

Thank you, Professor Bearer-Friend, for that kind introduction. It is nice to be back at GW Law for the first time in a
long time. I want to thank the friends and colleagues who are here today, particularly Bharat, who was gracious
enough to agree to join me for a conversation about the Biden Administration's economic policy.

My connection to GW Law has helped to cement my long-held belief that I wanted to dedicate my career to public
service. I still recall Professor Dalia Tsuk Mitchell's Corporations class during the fall semester of my 2L year in
2004. Her critical takes on the Delaware Chancellors' opinions made me appreciate business law as a means of
understanding how economic policy shapes our broader society.

I have similarly benefitted from the wisdom of former colleagues like Professor Bearer-Friend, who was a fellow tax
staffer in the U.S. Senate during part of my tenure there. Tax policy was not my strong suit, to say the least, but in
the entrepreneurial environment of Capitol Hill, it helps to have brilliant colleagues with similar progressive values to
help ensure that those values translate into economic policy.

Finally, while I regret never having taken a class with him during my time at GW Law, I want to express my
immense gratitude to Professor Emeritus Art Wilmarth. No one has been more generous with his time, more
enthusiastic to welcome fellow travelers into the world of U.S. banking law and policy, and more willing to share his
encyclopedic knowledge of the financial system. For every current-day banking policy issue, you will likely find a
decades-old, exhaustively researched law journal article written by Professor Wilmarth that explains the roots of the

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 8
  Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the George Washington University
                                Law School Business & Finance Law Program

problem and the path forward. Professor Wilmarth has left an indelible mark in his field by inspiring an entire
generation of banking law scholars.

Turning to the topic of my remarks today, my reflections on the experience of serving for two years as the Assistant
Secretary for Financial Institutions at the U.S. Treasury Department. The Assistant Secretary for Financial
Institutions oversees a broad policy portfolio, encompassing banks, credit unions, the insurance sector,
cybersecurity and critical infrastructure, community development, and consumer protection. I have organized this
portfolio according to the "seven Cs": community, climate, cybersecurity, cryptocurrency, capital, competition, and
consumers. The Biden Administration has made meaningful progress on these "seven Cs" by advancing an
affirmative vision of a financial system that is more stable, less concentrated, and more equitable for consumers
and communities. We have also responded to unforeseen challenges that have arisen along the way.

I'll begin with community. With all that has happened in the world since January 2021, it is easy to forget that three
years ago, the Biden Administration took office in a moment of dramatic economic upheaval caused by the COVID-
19 pandemic. The passage and rapid implementation of the American Rescue Plan prevented the short-term shock
of the pandemic from devolving into a longer-term economic disaster. Recent analyses of programs like Treasury's
Emergency Rental Assistance Program have demonstrated that Treasury's approach to pandemic-response
programs resulted in resources being effectively targeted to women, communities of color, and the lowest-income
households.1

We are proud to have achieved a historically rapid recovery from an economic crisis, but that was not the end of our
work. This Administration recognizes that a lack of economic opportunity for communities of color, low-income
communities, and rural areas impedes economic progress for our nation overall, and we have been focused on
building a more equitable economy for the long term. We have implemented programs that have made available
historic funding to mission-driven organizations for the purpose of opening access to capital and financial services
for financially underserved borrowers and economically distressed places. Investing in financially underserved
communities is not only consistent with our highest ideals; it is essential to our shared economic growth and
prosperity.

This is a transformational moment in community finance, not only because of the scale of federal investments, but
also because Treasury has crafted an approach to community finance policy to ensure that these resources have a
deep impact and meet the needs of underserved communities. For example, Treasury has taken significant steps to
better define and safeguard the Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) mission of promoting
community development--including, for the first time, establishing responsible financing guidelines for all CDFIs.2
Together with other efforts, like the reforms made by independent regulators to the rules implementing the
Community Reinvestment Act, these sustained investments seek to target support to households and small
businesses in low- and moderate-income communities. Today, I published a blog on the Treasury website that
details Treasury's approach to equitable community finance policy. The public sector has laid a foundation, and now
private investors have an opportunity to consider how they can bring private capital to bear in ways that build on this
foundation, promoting equitable growth that benefits all people and communities.

Next, I will turn to climate. In May 2021, President Biden issued the Executive Order on Climate-Related Financial
Risk,3 which tasked Treasury's Federal Insurance Office with assessing "the potential for major disruptions of
private insurance coverage in regions of the country particularly vulnerable to climate change impacts." In
November, we issued a revised proposal to collect, for the first time in history, a limited amount of historical and
current underwriting data on homeowners insurance from certain insurers in order to assess the role of climate
change in the decline in the availability of property insurance in the United States, especially in certain markets.4
This work has equity implications, as studies have shown that traditionally underserved and disadvantaged
communities and consumers, including those who are low- and moderate-income, are hardest hit by climate
change. It also bears on financial stability, as impacts in the insurance market can have potentially significant
consequences for homeowners and their property values, which can spill over to other parts of our interconnected
financial system.

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 8
   Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the George Washington University
                                 Law School Business & Finance Law Program

Also pursuant to the climate financial risk Executive Order, following a recommendation from the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, Treasury's Office of Consumer Policy in September released a report on the Impact of Climate
Change on American Household Finances.5 The report found that climate change is resulting in profound impacts
on household finances--from pressure on income and expenses to real and personal property damage, to reduced
access to financial products and services, including insurance as I just discussed. It also highlighted how the
intersection of economic and social vulnerability and place-based exposure to climate hazard means that
communities that have been historically underserved or subject to disparities are at disproportionate risk of financial
harm, even though they are not the people who have most benefitted financially from the activities driving climate
change.

Treating only the symptoms of climate change will not be sufficient. That is why, in addition to the Inflation
Reduction Act and the other historic investments that the Biden Administration has made in the climate transition,
Treasury has issued principles-based guidance to the financial sector in financing the climate transition. In
September, the Department released its voluntary Principles for Net-Zero Financing & Investment.6 The Principles
state that financial institution net-zero commitments should be in line with limiting the increase in the global average
temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius; affirm that financial institutions that have made these commitments should
develop transition plans with clear practices, targets, and metrics; and note that financial institutions that have made
such commitments should support their clients and portfolio companies in adopting their own transition plans.

Addressing the social and economic impacts of climate change will require mobilizing the financial system to both
address risks and mitigate harms. That is why climate change is a priority for the Treasury Department.

Moving ahead to the third "C," cybersecurity, Treasury's Office of Cybersecurity and Critical Infrastructure
Protection coordinates Treasury's role as Sector Risk Management Agency for the financial services sector. Shortly
after I joined the Department a little over two years ago, Russian state-sponsored cyber actors conducted a wave of
cyberattacks against Ukrainian infrastructure, including several attacks targeting financial services sector entities, in
the weeks following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. By April 2023, Russia's attempts to dominate the cyber landscape
had not materialized in tangible results, and there has been a continued lull in their state-sponsored activity.

That does not mean that all has been quiet in terms of malicious cyber activity. In October, for example, several
cloud service providers reported that they had withstood the internet's largest-known distributed denial-of-service
(DDoS) attack, with one cloud service provider reporting that it experienced an attack more than seven times larger
than the previous largest known attack. Industry sources have also reported a substantial resurgence in
ransomware attacks in the past year. To cite two notable recent public examples, in February and March, a
ransomware attack on the trading firm Ion disrupted its cleared derivatives business for several days. In November,
the U.S. broker-dealer affiliate of the bank ICBC suffered a ransomware attack that impacted its client clearing
business. Treasury has increasingly served as a coordinator for financial institutions and regulatory agencies to
plan for, and respond to, these kinds of cyber incidents.

Treasury also advances Administration policies for financial sector cybersecurity and infrastructure protection. This
has placed us at the forefront of some of the most important emerging cybersecurity policy issues of the day,
including our report on the Financial Services Sector's Adoption of Cloud Services,7 and the work that we are
undertaking on the implications of artificial intelligence (AI) on financial services sector cybersecurity. The cloud
report highlights some of the key challenges of increased cloud adoption, including insufficient transparency to
customers pertaining to operations and operational incidents at cloud service providers; unequal dynamics in cloud
contract negotiations, which can particularly affect smaller firms; and the potential impacts that market
concentration among cloud service providers could have on exposures to operational risk and general sector-wide
resilience. We are working toward establishing a more transparent model for cloud services that places less
pressure on cloud customers and asks cloud service providers to take more responsibility for the security of those
customers. These changes would particularly benefit smaller institutions such as community banks and credit
unions. Treasury has also been tasked by the President, through the Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and
Trustworthy Development of Artificial Intelligence, with issuing a report on best practices for financial institutions
to manage AI-specific cybersecurity risks.8

                                                                                                   Page 4 of 8
   Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the George Washington University
                                 Law School Business & Finance Law Program

While none of the recent events that I have noted have resulted in catastrophic cyber incidents, they are increasing
in their frequency and impact. Indeed, it is likely a matter of when--not if--we experience a catastrophic cyber event.
The increasing adoption of cloud services and AI will further raise the stakes for public- and private-sector efforts to
ensure operational and cyber resilience. That is why Treasury takes its cybersecurity role so seriously. Confronting
the growing cybersecurity risks requires a steadfast commitment to an all-hands-on-deck approach to public-private
coordination.

Turning to the next "C," crypto-assets have occupied an outsized amount of policymakers' bandwidth over the past
three years relative to the value of their demonstrated use cases. In the spring of 2022, the President issued the
Executive Order on Ensuring Responsible Development of Digital Assets,9 which tasked Treasury with issuing a
series of reports, including our Office of Consumer Policy's report on Crypto-Assets: Implications for Consumers,
Investors, and Businesses.10

That report noted that consumers, investors, and businesses engaging with crypto-assets are exposed to conduct,
operational, and intermediation risks, and risks from regulatory non-compliance. These factors contribute to
frequent instances of operational failures, market manipulation, fraud, thefts, and scams. There are also unique
risks associated with crypto-asset offerings, such as data privacy and security risks, cost structure concerns, and
other risks related to new forms of discrimination and unfair and deceptive acts and practices. We also focused on
the claims that crypto-assets can advance financial inclusion, concluding that although some have argued that
digital assets have the potential to improve access to financial services for financially underserved communities,
that vision has not materialized. Our report noted that the U.S. generally has strong investor and consumer
protection laws that address many of the risks posed by crypto-assets. Where existing laws and regulations apply,
they must be enforced vigorously so that crypto-assets and services--and the consumers who use them--are
subject to the same protections and principles as other financial products and services.

Less than two months after we released the report, one of the leading crypto-asset exchanges, FTX, filed for
bankruptcy. While consumers and investors have suffered meaningful and unnecessary harms as the crypto hype
met the cold reality of "crypto winter," so far crypto-assets have not undermined U.S. financial stability more
broadly. That is due in large part to the federal banking agencies taking a careful and cautious approach that has
largely maintained the safety and soundness of banking institutions in the context of these extremely volatile
financial products. In my view, the agencies have responded with appropriate prudence to the destabilizing events
in the crypto-asset markets.

Our nation's long history of financial booms and busts has repeatedly shown the failures of race-to-the-bottom
regulatory approaches, which lead to consumer manipulation, threats to financial stability, and recessions. After
every financial crisis, we have adopted a set of fixes, from the National Bank Act to the New Deal banking
legislation to the Dodd-Frank Act. For crypto-assets, policymakers have a chance to act before a crisis to adopt
high standards that support responsible innovation. At the same time, it is critical that any legislative proposals not
undermine the already robust regulatory foundations that apply to financial institutions and capital markets.

The next "C" is capital, meaning the shareholder equity and other loss-absorbing funding that enables banks to fund
customers and businesses resiliently throughout periods of economic ups and downs. The issue of bank capital
was front and center during the Global Financial Crisis of 2007-09, and it has again come to the fore in the wake of
the rapid failure in early March of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), followed two days later by the failure of Signature
Bank. These events created the potential for significant impacts to the broader banking system and U.S. economy.
In response to concerns about potential broader contagion in the U.S. banking system, Treasury, the FDIC, and the
Federal Reserve took actions to protect depositors and provide additional liquidity. While First Republic Bank failed
two months later, that was more of an aftershock of the March developments than a sign of any shift in the
fundamental health of the banking system, and we believe that our actions restored public confidence in the
banking system and protected the American economy.

Nonetheless, over the course of two months last spring, we experienced the second, third, and fourth largest bank
failures in U.S. history by assets. SVB, Signature, and First Republic's failures were caused by classic bank runs,

                                                                                                  Page 5 of 8
  Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the George Washington University
                                Law School Business & Finance Law Program

albeit at historic proportions. One factor motivating the depositors' run on SVB was a concern about its solvency,
particularly the risk that the unrealized losses on the firm's securities holdings exceeded the firm's shareholder
equity. This loss of confidence underscores the importance of credible and robust capital standards and prompt
supervisory intervention to address weaknesses. The tailoring framework implemented by the previous
Administration that weakened, and in some cases removed, regulatory and supervisory requirements for large
regional banks was undergirded by a belief that the failure of those banks would not have broader systemic
impacts.11 In hindsight, that belief was clearly misguided.

The President has urged the banking regulators, in consultation with the Treasury Department, to consider a set of
reforms that would reduce the risk of future banking crises.12 The banking agencies have proposed rules that
would implement the final elements of the Basel III international capital reforms and proposed additional revisions to
their prudential frameworks, including rules for long-term debt and resolution planning. Treasury, across
Administrations, has long supported the efforts of the U.S. banking agencies to implement the Basel Accords in a
manner consistent with the unique structure of the U.S. banking system to further safety and soundness and
promote financial stability.13 This series of reforms both completes some of the work that began in the wake of the
Global Financial Crisis and addresses specific vulnerabilities highlighted by the events of last spring.

The banking agencies have taken significant steps to address some of the underlying causes of the 2023 regional
bank stress, but there are a few items that could warrant additional scrutiny. First, while the Basel proposal
incorporates unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities in the capital requirements applicable to
banks with $100 billion or more in total assets, it may be worth reassessing the treatment of unrealized gains or
losses in banks' available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities under both capital and liquidity frameworks.
Second, there are important questions that remain about whether the current prudential framework sufficiently
addresses the risks that arise from the rapid growth in a bank's assets in a timely manner. For example, the phase-
in of the application of requirements like the stress test and stress capital buffer contains significant lags. The
capital requirements for large regional banks are also relatively static, meaning that many of the largest U.S. non-
global systemically important banks have the same risk-based capital requirements as much smaller and less
complex banks. Third, the application and calibration of the various liquidity requirements for large, regional, and
midsize banking institutions could likely be updated based upon recent experience, including by revising the
treatment of both uninsured and brokered deposits. Finally, I would note that Signature and First Republic operated
without bank holding companies and were therefore not subject to the holding company regulatory regime, including
regulatory requirements like the supervisory stress testing framework, potentially undermining the effectiveness of
supervisory and resolution regimes. While there has been progress on some reforms--like the proposals on capital,
resolution planning, and long-term debt--it is worth considering whether regulatory frameworks should provide more
comparable treatment for large regional banking organizations with a holding company and those without one.

The events last spring were severe, but some of the causes and consequences have already faded from the
memories of many--a condition that my former boss in the Senate has referred to as "collective amnesia."14 It is
important for policymakers to remain keenly aware of the lesson from banking panics over the last two centuries,
including the turmoil that we experienced in March, that the banking system cannot operate without trust--but if risks
develop unchecked over time, that trust can disappear in an instant.

The sixth "C" on my list is competition, specifically in the banking sector. President Biden's Executive Order on
Promoting Competition in the American Economy in 2021 tasked Treasury with assessing the impacts of new
entrant non-bank firms on competition in consumer finance markets.15 Last November, we published a report
finding, unsurprisingly, that the banking industry has grown more concentrated over time.16 As a result, we
recommended that the banking agencies review their bank merger oversight policies in light of ongoing
consolidation and the potential waning utility of certain traditional measurements of competition due to the evolving
marketplace.

New entrant non-bank firms have largely not been subject to the kind of comprehensive regulation and supervision
to which banks are subject. As a result, the growing role of these firms in financial markets is accompanied by risks
related to regulatory arbitrage, data privacy and security, bias and discrimination, and consumer protection, among

                                                                                                   Page 6 of 8
   Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the George Washington University
                                 Law School Business & Finance Law Program

others. The report's recommendations supported the efforts by the banking agencies and the CFPB to address
these risks, using their relevant authorities, including increased oversight of bank-fintech partnerships, guardrails
around Buy Now, Pay Later products, and increased consumer data protections. But there are some remaining
outstanding issues raised by our report. More can be done to address the emerging competitive risks from the
entrance of Big Tech firms into financial services, including ensuring that structures like industrial loan companies
do not threaten the traditional separation of banking and commerce.

In the traditional banking space, last February, I participated in a panel discussion at the OCC's symposium on
bank mergers, just a month before the SVB failure. That discussion centered on how to evaluate the financial
stability risk from bank mergers, including whether the failure of a large regional bank would affect U.S. financial
stability.17 In hindsight, those questions were timelier than we realized, occurring shortly before three of the largest
bank failures in U.S. history by assets, accompanied by two systemic risk exception determinations. But SVB's
systemic importance score prior to its failure was well below the threshold that would qualify a bank as systemically
important,18 and, when SVB was approved to make an acquisition in 2021, it easily passed the financial stability
analysis. This suggests that further improvements can be made to our methodologies for measuring the financial
stability risks that a bank can pose as part of the merger review process.

Last is the seventh C, the consumer. The landscape of consumer financial products offered by financial institutions-
-particularly payments, credit, and deposit-taking--is shifting at an unprecedented rate, with the emergence of new
technologies, intermediaries, and even new forms of payment. These developments carry significant implications
for the financial system and the consumers who want to use financial products and services. They are also forcing
policymakers to confront profound questions about the meaning of responsible innovation. While some of the
financial risks to consumers are new, many are not.

For example, consumer data is increasingly at the heart of the financial services ecosystem. While new
technologies and permissioned data sharing can expand access to beneficial financial services, designing new
products and services without adequately accounting for the needs of the most vulnerable and marginalized could
create or reinforce certain disparities. The rise of fintech firms and their novel uses of consumer data and
technology, including AI, create the potential for new forms of discrimination, including increased opportunities for
predatory targeting and price discrimination. The opacity of AI models could pose challenges for compliance with
fair lending requirements and could perpetuate discrimination by using and learning from data that reflects historical
biases. The large amount of consumer data being collected and used in AI applications also poses broader
surveillance and privacy risks, particularly for certain communities.

As the importance of data in financial services increases, so too must consumer protections. The CFPB's proposed
rulemaking implementing Section 1033 of the Dodd-Frank Act is an important step in establishing personal data
rights and helping to resolve core issues that have inhibited consumers' control over their own data. Treasury has
also previously recommended that the CFPB consider directly supervising data aggregators, which store vast and
ever-growing amounts of consumer financial data, generally without the kind of supervision of their data practices
applicable to regulated depository institutions. Longstanding regulatory and supervisory expectations to address
things like model risk management and prevent discrimination or bias can address some of the risks associated
with new technologies like AI.

Digital payments is another area of growing interest. Credit and debit cards remain the most prevalent instruments
for consumer payments and the CFPB is working to finalize a rule aimed at reining in excessive credit card late
fees. The CFPB recently issued a proposed rule to supervise large nonbank payment companies that are entering
the payment markets, and it will be important to continue to address the role of Big Tech firms and nonbank
payment providers in digital payments. Treasury has recommended establishing a more comprehensive federal
framework for payments regulation, to protect users and the financial system and ensure that innovation ultimately
benefits consumers.19

                                                                                                  Page 7 of 8
  Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the George Washington University
                                Law School Business & Finance Law Program

Over the past three years, the Treasury Department has responded to a series of challenges--from a global
pandemic to geopolitical tensions, to financial system instability--to protect the U.S. economy, businesses, and
households.

While we have made significant progress on our economic agenda, the journey toward a fairer and more stable
financial system is not over, and some are already pushing back on our efforts. There are always arguments
against creating a more just and equitable economy--whether it involves addressing financial booms and busts, the
escalating crisis of climate change, or the legacies of racial and economic inequality. In good times, people will say
the system is working and there's no need for more regulations. When the business cycle turns, they say the
financial system is too fragile to withstand rules intended to avoid future downturns and protect our most vulnerable
communities. To paraphrase an old saying, the time for financial reform "has a trick of going rotten before it is
ripe."20 As history teaches us again and again, strong regulation and consumer protection are vital to ensuring that
our financial system serves as a source of stability and equitable growth.

Thank you again for having me and for your time today. I'm looking forward to the conversation with my good friend
Bharat Ramamurti.

###

[1] Office of Evaluation Sciences, Equity in the Distribution of the Emergency Rental Assistance Program, General
Services Administration (2022), https://oes.gsa.gov/projects/era-equity/.

[2] Press Release, U.S. Treasury Department Updates Certification Application for Community Development
Financial Institutions to Promote Responsible Lending to Financially Underserved Communities, U.S. Department of
the Treasury, Dec. 7, 2023, https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1967.

[3] Executive Order No. 14,030 (May 20, 2021), https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/DCPD-202100425/pdf/DCPD-
202100425.pdf.

[4] Press Release, Treasury's Federal Insurance Office Advances First Insurer Data Call to Assess Climate-Related
Financial    Risk     to   Consumers,      U.S.     Department    of     the    Treasury,     Nov.    1,   2023,
https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1867.

[5] U.S. Department of the Treasury, The Impact of Climate Change On American Household Finances (Sept.
2023), https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Climate_Change_Household_Finances.pdf.

[6] U.S. Department of the Treasury, Principles for Net-Zero Financing & Investment (Sept. 2023),
https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/NetZeroPrinciples.pdf.

[7] U.S. Department of the Treasury, The Financial Services Sector's Adoption of Cloud Services (Feb. 2023),
https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1252.

[8] Executive Order No. 14,110 (Oct. 30, 2023), https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2023-11-01/pdf/2023-
24283.pdf.

[9] Executive Order No. 14,067 (Mar. 9, 2022), https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-
actions/2022/03/09/executive-order-on-ensuring-responsible-development-of-digital-assets/.

[10] U.S. Department of the Treasury, Crypto-Assets: Implications for Consumers, Investors, and Businesses (Sept.
2022), https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/CryptoAsset_EO5.pdf.

[11] Graham S. Steele, The Tailors of Wall Street, 93 University of Colorado Law Review 993 (2022),
https://lawreview.colorado.edu/print/volume-93/the-tailors-of-wall-street/.

                                                                                                      Page 8 of 8
      Remarks by Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the George Washington University
                                    Law School Business & Finance Law Program

[12] The White House, President Biden Urges Regulators to Reverse Trump Administration Weakening of
Common-Sense Safeguards and Supervision for Large Regional Banks, March 30, 2023,
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/30/fact-sheet-president-biden-urges-
regulators-to-reverse-trump-administration-weakening-of-common-sense-safeguards-and-supervision-for-large-
regional-banks/.

[13] Treasury Secretary Geithner Remarks to International Monetary Conference, June 6, 2011,
https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/tg1202; also Treasury Secretary Mnuchin's Statement on Basel III,
December 7, 2017, https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm0232.

[14] Press Release, Brown Keynote Speech at Americans for Financial Reform Forum on the Financial Crisis Ten
Years       Later,        Office       of      Senator  Sherrod       Brown,      July        24,       2018,
https://www.brown.senate.gov/newsroom/press/release/brown-keynote-speech-at-americans-for-financial-reform-
forum-on-the-financial-crisis-ten-years-later.

[15] Executive Order No. 14,036 (July 9, 2021), https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/DCPD-202100578/pdf/DCPD-
202100578.pdf.

[16] U.S. Department of the Treasury, Assessing the Impact of New Entrant Non-bank Firms on Competition in
Consumer Finance Markets (Nov. 2022), https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Assessing-the-Impact-of-New-
Entrant-Nonbank-Firms.pdf.

[17] Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Bank Merger Symposium, Financial Stability Panel, February 10,
2023, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=edaBCbv2eHg&t=9213s.

[18] Remarks By Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions Graham Steele at the Americans for Financial Reform
Education Fund, U.S. Department of the Treasury, July 25, 2023, https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-
releases/jy1648.

[19] U.S. Department of the Treasury, The Future of Money and                         Payments    (August   2022),
https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Future-of-Money-and-Payments.pdf.

[20] This quote from English classical scholar Francis M. Cornford's Microcosmographia Academica appears in the
epigraph to chapter 11 of the book The Banker's New Clothes by Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig.

***

Original text here: https://home.treasury.gov//news/press-releases/jy2029

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8449251 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 18, 2024


  
