

                                                                                Page 1 of 2
    ISRAEL MUST ALLOW 'QUANTUM LEAP' IN AID DELIVERY UN CHIEF URGES, CALLING FOR CHANGE
                                   IN MILITARY TACTICS




      ISRAEL MUST ALLOW 'QUANTUM LEAP' IN AID DELIVERY UN CHIEF
           URGES, CALLING FOR CHANGE IN MILITARY TACTICS
                                                  States News Service
                                                   April 5, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 584 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: NEW YORK

Body


The following information was released by the United Nations:

Israel must make meaningful changes in the way it is fighting in Gaza to avoid civilian casualties while also
undergoing "a true paradigm shift" in lifesaving aid delivery, the UN chief said on Friday.

Marking six months of war since the "abhorrent" Hamas-led terror attacks of 7 October, Antnio Guterres told
journalists at UN Headquarters in New York that nothing could justify the horror unleashed by Palestinian militants
that day.

"I once again utterly condemn the use of sexual violence, torture injuring and kidnapping of civilians, the firing of
rockets towards civilian targets and the use of human shields", he said, calling again for the unconditional release of
all hostages still being held in the Gaza Strip.

Having met many of the family members of those held captive "I carry their anguish, uncertainty and deep pain with
me every day", added Mr. Guterres.

'Relentless death'

But the past six months of Israel's military campaign has also brought "relentless death and destruction to
Palestinians", with over 32,000 reported killed, the vast majority women and children.

"Lives are shattered. Respect for international law is in tatters", he said.

The resulting humanitarian disaster is unprecedented, with more than a million "facing catastrophic hunger."

Children are dying due to lack of food and water: "This is incomprehensible and entirely avoidable", the UN chief
declared, repeating that nothing can justify such collective punishment.

Weaponized AI

                                                                               Page 2 of 2
   ISRAEL MUST ALLOW 'QUANTUM LEAP' IN AID DELIVERY UN CHIEF URGES, CALLING FOR CHANGE
                                  IN MILITARY TACTICS

Mr. Guterres said he was deeply troubled by reports that the Israeli military has been using AI to help identify
targets during its relentless bombing of densely populated areas of Gaza.

"No part of life and death decisions which impact entire families should be delegated to the cold calculation of
algorithms", he said.

AI should only be used as a force for good, not to wage war "on an industrial level, blurring accountability."

Humanitarian deaths

Branding the war "the deadliest of conflicts", he highlighted that 196 humanitarians including over 175 UN staffers
have been killed, the vast majority serving with Palestine relief agency UNRWA.

"An information war has added to the trauma obscuring facts and shifting blame", said the UN chief, compounded
by Israel denying journalists entry into Gaza, consequently allowing disinformation to spread.

Tactics must change

And following the appalling killing of the seven staffers with World Central Kitchen, the main problem is not who
made the mistakes but "the military strategy and procedures in place that allow for those mistakes to multiply time
and time again", the Secretary-General said.

"Fixing those failures requires independent investigations and meaningful and measurable changes on the ground."

He said the UN had been told by the Israeli Government that it was now planning to allow a "meaningful increase"
in the flow of aid to Gaza. The UN chief said he sincerely hoped the increase in aid would materialize quickly.

'Failure would be unforgivable'

"Dramatic humanitarian conditions require a quantum leap in the delivery of life-saving aid a true paradigm shift."

He noted last week's Security Council resolution calling for hostages releases, civilian protection and unimpeded
aid delivery.

"All those demands must be implemented. Failure would unforgivable", he said.

Six months on, the world stands on the brink of mass starvation in Gaza, a regional conflagration and a "total loss
of faith in global standards and norms."


Load-Date: April 5, 2024


  
