

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 8
                                Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024




                Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                         February 10, 2024 Saturday 10:15 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3422 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(TNSres) -- The U.S. Census Bureau issued the following tip sheet (No. 3) on Feb. 9, 2024:

***

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

2030 Preparation

Initial Strategies for 2030 Census Preparations

The Census Bureau plans to release five strategy documents outlining how it plans to carry out the next decennial
census. The strategies cover the Census Bureau's approach for conducting a complete count, designing
operations, developing the IT solution, sourcing contracts and engaging with stakeholders for the 2030 Census.
(Tentatively scheduled for release in February.)

2020 Census

2020 Island Areas Censuses Detailed Cross-Tabulations Data

The Census Bureau will release detailed cross-tabulation data for the U.S. Island Areas: American Samoa, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The release includes 95
demographic, social, economic and housing characteristics tables. These characteristics are cross tabulated by
race, age, sex, place of birth, educational attainment, labor force status, occupation, industry, and income and

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 8
                            Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024

earnings. Housing characteristics are cross tabulated by age of householder, household income in 2019, household
size, tenure, units in structure and year built. This final release of 2020 Island Areas Censuses data includes the
Island Area and county levels of geography. More information is available on the 2020 Island Areas Censuses Data
Products webpage. (Scheduled for release February 15.)

American Community Survey

New Brief on the Commuting Patterns in the United States and Puerto Rico

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a brief highlighting the newest available statistics on commuting behavior from
the American Community Survey (ACS). Commuting in the United States: 2022 will explore recent commuting
trends in the United States and Puerto Rico using estimates from the 2022 ACS 1-year dataset, with comparisons
to ACS data from 2019 and 2021. The brief highlights changes in the way people travel to work since the onset of
the COVID-19 pandemic, variation in commute time by year and across different types of community, and shifts in
the distribution of workers leaving for work at different times of day between 2019 and 2022. (Tentatively scheduled
for release February 20.)

New Report on the Nation's Foreign-Born Population

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new data products highlighting select demographic and socioeconomic
characteristics of the nation's foreign-born population. The Foreign-Born Population 2022 report compares 2010
and 2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year estimates to provide insight into the changing composition of
the foreign-born population in the United States. The Highlights of the Foreign-Born Population data visualization
displays 2018-2022 ACS 5-year estimates about the foreign-born population at various levels of geography,
including national, state and county. (Tentatively scheduled for release February 21.)

Demographic

Census Bureau Releases 2022 Community Resilience Estimates Equity Supplement

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2022 Community Resilience Estimates Equity Supplement, an update to
the CRE for Equity Interactive Tool, for U.S. areas most socially vulnerable to disasters. The Community Resilience
Estimates Equity Supplement shows a connection between income inequality and higher social vulnerability to the
impact of disasters and includes new 2022 equity estimates with race-iterated variables that allow users to examine
select topics related to social vulnerability by specific racial and Hispanic origin groups. (Scheduled for release
February 20.)

Household Pulse Survey

The experimental Household Pulse Survey (HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4 topics include employment status, spending, food security, housing, health, mental health, natural
disasters, inflation and spending, vaccine receipt, COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, shortage of critical products,
disability, income, social connection and child care arrangements. Data collection for phase 4.0 began January 9,
with data dissemination, including detailed data tables and public-use files on a monthly basis. (Scheduled for
release February 22, March 21, and April 18.)

Economic

Transitioning Multiple Annual Economic Surveys to the new Annual Integrated Economic Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will announce the launch of the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) beginning in
March. This new program replaces seven annual economic surveys, streamlining reporting by consolidating all
necessary questions into one convenient survey. The AIES will replace the Annual Capital Expenditures Survey
(ACES), Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS), Annual Survey of Manufactures (ASM), Annual Wholesale Trade
Survey (AWTS), Manufacturers' Unfilled Orders Survey (M3UFO), Report of Organization (COS), and the Service

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 8
                            Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024

Annual Survey (SAS). Companies selected to participate in the AIES will receive a survey invitation in March of
2024The statistics created from that data will provide key measures of economic activity, including the only
comprehensive national and subnational data on business revenues, expenses and assets on an annual basis. For
more information on the AIES, visit census.gov/aies.

"Studying Workers' Travel Patterns to Employment Centers Using Census Data"

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute presents,
"Studying Workers' Travel Patterns to Employment Centers Using Census Data." This study explores workers
historical travel patterns, utilizing the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) Origin-Destination
Employment Statistics (LODES) data to gain insight into the relationship between demographic characteristics and
primary employment centers in the San Diego region. Results of this study will help local policy makers and key
stakeholders to institute data driven programs and policies to improve regional transportation systems leading to
reduced congestion and emissions. (Schedule for release February 21.)

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release data from the 2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES)
highlighting the industries with the largest total capital expenditures for structures and equipment for companies
with employees in 2022. Data are based on the 2017 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The
ACES provides the only comprehensive estimates of annual U.S. capital expenditures data covering all domestic
nonfarm businesses and detailing investments by type and industry. (Tentatively scheduled for release February
28.)

2021 Nonemployer Statistics

The Census Bureau is set to release the 2021 Nonemployer Statistics (NES). This annual series provides
subnational economic data for businesses that have no paid employees or payroll, are subject to federal income tax
and have receipts of $1,000 or more ($1 or more for the Construction sector). The data consist of the number of
businesses and total receipts by industry and are available for approximately 470 industries at detailed geographic
levels, including national, state, county, metropolitan/micropolitan statistical areas and combined statistical areas.
(Scheduled for release March 14.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. BTOS
experimental data products are representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding farms.
Data are available by additional employment size classes: 1-4 employees, 5-9 employees, 10-19 employees, 20-49
employees, 50-99 employees, 100-249 employees and 250 or more employees. The data allow greater insight into
the state of the economy by providing continuous, timely information for key economic measures. Data are released
biweekly and are available by sector, state and the 25 most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Additional
details on artificial intelligence use and types used will be added for one cycle starting December 4, 2023, and
released in March 2024. Because of the change in sample composition, BTOS data from before September 11,
2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional and national levels and by industry sector
at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released February 14 and include January 2024 data. Business
Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (census.gov).

Stats for Stories

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting U.S. Census Bureau statistics that relate to current
events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining
and producing content for their respective audiences.

* Oregon 165th Anniversary of Statehood (1859): February 14, 2024

* Singles Awareness Day: February 15, 2024

* Presidents' Day: February 19, 2024

* Employee Appreciation Day: March 1, 2024

* Red Cross Month: March 2024

* Frozen Food Month & Day: March & 6, 2024

* International Women's Day: March 8, 2024

* 95th Oscars(R)/Academy Awards: March 10, 2024

* Sunshine Week & FOI Day: March 10-16 & 16, 2024

* Equal Pay Day: March 12, 2024

* Pi Day: March 14, 2024

* Potato Chip Day: March 14, 2024

* National Agriculture Day & Week: March 17-23 & 19, 2024

* Certified Nurses Day: March 19, 2024

* National Poultry Day: March 19, 2024

* National Single Parent Day: March 21, 2024

* World Water Day: March 22, 2024

* MLB Opening Day: March 28, 2024

* National Mom and Pop Business Owners Day: March 29, 2024

* National Vietnam War Veterans Day: March 29, 2024

* National Doctors Day: March 30, 2024

***

Recently Released

(Released since January 26, 2024)

Census Scientific Advisory Committee: Call for Nominations

The U.S. Census Bureau is requesting nominations to the Census Scientific Advisory Committee (CSAC) through a
Federal Register notice (FRN). CSAC provides recommendations on the design, operation and implementation of
Census Bureau programs. New members will serve a 3-year term. Nominations must be submitted through the
FRN by February 2, 2024.

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024

2020 Census

Detailed DHC-B Proof of Concept

January 29 -- The Census Bureau released a proof of concept and hosted a webinar and for the 2020 Census
Detailed Demographic and Housing Characteristics File B (Detailed DHC-B) for public review and feedback. The
Detailed DHC-B includes household type and tenure data for approximately 1,500 detailed racial and ethnic groups
and American Indian and Alaska Native tribes and villages. This proof of concept illustrates the proposed 2020
Census Detailed DHC-B data product design and disclosure avoidance settings using 2010 Census data. A 30-day
public feedback period on the proof of concept concludes February 28. The final Detailed DHC-B based on 2020
Census     data   will   be    released    in   September     2024.    Learn    more      from    the    webinar
(https://www.census.gov/data/academy/webinars/2024/disclosure-avoidance-series/dhc-b-proof-of-concept.html) on
January 29.

American Community Survey

2022 Community Resilience Estimates, New Winter Weather and Flooding Ranking Tables

January 30 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released the 2022 Community Resilience Estimates (CRE) and new ranking
tables of U.S. areas most socially vulnerable to winter weather and flooding. The CRE interactive tool and datasets
pages are updated with the new 2022 CRE data. Community resilience is the capacity of individuals and
households within a community to absorb the external stresses of a disaster. The CRE measures the social
vulnerability of a community that inhibits community resilience based on 10 topics from the American Community
Survey, including poverty status, disability status, age, broadband internet access and health insurance coverage.

Economic

2020 Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics Data

February 8 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released the 2020 Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics (NES-D).
Included in this release are demographic data by urban and rural classification, receipt size of firm and legal form of
organization plus characteristics of nonemployer business owners. The NES-D is an annual statistical series that
uses existing administrative records and census data to link demographic characteristics to the universe of
nonemployer businesses.

Census Business Builder Version 5.4

February 1 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released version 5.4 of the Census Business Builder tool. This update
features a new enhancement that allows users to evaluate declared disaster areas and their impacts. CBB v5.4
also includes enhancements to existing functionality and the latest data available. More information on Census
Business Builder is available online.

2022 Annual Wholesale Trade Survey

January 29 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released data tables from the 2022 Annual Wholesale Trade Survey
(AWTS). This survey produces national estimates of total annual sales, e-commerce sales, end-of-year inventories,
purchases, operating expenses, gross margins and commissions for wholesale businesses located in the United
States. The AWTS provides statistics for merchant wholesalers of durable and nondurable goods; manufacturers'
sales branches and offices; and wholesale electronic markets, agents and brokers.

2022 Annual Retail Trade Survey

January 29 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released data tables from the 2022 Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS).
This survey produces national estimates of total annual sales, e-commerce sales, end-of-year inventories,
purchases, total operating expenses and gross margins for retail businesses located in the United States. The data

                                                                                                      Page 6 of 8
                            Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024

are published on a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) basis and the estimates are used to
benchmark the monthly retail sales and inventories estimates each spring.

2022 Service Annual Survey

January 30 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released new data tables from the 2022 Service Annual Survey (SAS). The
SAS provides statistics on revenue, payroll, sources of revenue, expenses, exports, inventory, revenue from
electronic sources and other selected industry-specific data for service industries. The data are accompanied by
supporting materials, including a data visualization that provides revenue statistics for all sectors covered by the
SAS.

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

* How the Real Estate Market Relies on Census Data (February 1)

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting the Census Bureau's newsworthy statistics that
relate to current events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media
in story mining and producing content for their respective audiences.

* Valentine's Day: February 14, 2024

* Mardi Gras: February 13, 2024

* Inventors' Day: February 11, 2024

* Super Bowl LVIII: February 11, 2024

* Lunar New Year: February 10, 2024

* National Weatherperson's Day: February 5, 2024

* Grammy Awards: February 4, 2024

* Mail Carrier Day: February 4, 2024

* National Women Physicians Day: February 3, 2024

* Groundhog Day: February 2, 2024

* American Heart Month: February 2024

Blogs

Next Steps on the American Community Survey Disability Questions

Written by: Robert L. Santos, Director, U.S. Census Bureau -- February 6 -- The American Community Survey
(ACS) is the premier source for detailed population and housing information about our nation and the only source of
local estimates for most of the 40-plus topics it covers. Adding a question or making a change to the ACS involves
extensive testing, review and evaluation over a 5-year period. (The current ACS question revisions under
consideration were first proposed in 2018.) Over 25 federal agencies participate in this process and make
recommendations to the Interagency Council on Statistical Policy's Subcommittee on the ACS (ICSP-SACS), which
is co-chaired by the chief statistician of the United States and the U.S. Census Bureau director.

                                                                                                   Page 7 of 8
                           Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources -- When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management
webpage for demographic and economic data on impacted areas. Each disaster will include data from our key
emergency management tools: OnTheMap for Emergency Management, Community Resilience Estimates, Census
Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition, and other useful resources.

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community -- Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-
plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from
the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official information about America's people, businesses,
industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

* Atlanta (https://www.census.gov/about/regions/atlanta/surveys-programs.html)

* Chicago (https://www.census.gov/about/regions/chicago/surveys-programs.html)

* Denver (https://www.census.gov/about/regions/denver/surveys-programs.html)

* Los Angeles (https://www.census.gov/about/regions/los-angeles/surveys-programs.html)

* New York (https://www.census.gov/about/regions/new-york/surveys-programs.html)

* Philadelphia (https://www.census.gov/about/regions/philadelphia/surveys-programs.html)

* All Surveys (https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/surveyhelp/list-of-surveys.html)

Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage
(https://www.census.gov/data/data-tools.html).

My Community Explorer for Puerto Rico -- Interactive map-based tool with demographic & socioeconomic data
showing capacity of individuals & households to absorb stresses of the impacts of a disaster.

My Congressional District -- Access selected statistics about your Congressional district collected through the
American Community Survey (ACS) and County Business Patterns (CBP).

QuickFacts -- QuickFacts provides frequently requested Census Bureau information at the national, state, county,
and city level.

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities -- Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and
use Census Bureau statistics. These free sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate
Census Bureau databases and mapping tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national
level. Descriptions of upcoming sessions are available on our Census Academy webpage. Login details are
provided at least one week before a webinar.

* The Annual Business Survey and The Economic Census (Thursday, February 15, 2-3:30 p.m. EST)

* Studying Workers' Travel Patterns to Employment Centers Using Census Data (Wednesday, February 21, 1:30-
3:00 p.m. EST)

* Diving into Island Areas Cross Tabulations on data.census.gov (Thursday, February 22, 2-3 p.m. EST)

                                                                                                   Page 8 of 8
                           Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 3 -- February 9, 2024

* Exploring the Diversity and Growth of the Asian American Population (Thursday, February 22, 2-3 p.m. EST)

* Comparing the American Community Survey to the Household Pulse Survey (Wednesday, February 28, 2-3 p.m.
EST)

* Community Resilience Estimates (Thursday, February 29, 2-3 p.m. EST)

Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library (https://www.census.gov/data/academy/webinars.html) for
previously recorded, free training available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded
webinars, tutorials and other helpful materials.

***

Original text here: https://www.census.gov/newsroom/tip-sheets/2024/tp24-03.html

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8483205 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: February 10, 2024


  
