

                                                                                                Page 1 of 11
      House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                                Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner




  House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing; "Oversight of the
     Food and Drug Administration."; Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA
                             Commissioner
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                             April 11, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES DOCUMENTS
Length: 7187 words

Body


Introduction

Chair Comer, Ranking Member Raskin, and members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to testify
before you to discuss the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA or the Agency) policies and priorities.

In the United States, the safety of medical, food, and cosmetic products depends on the actions of both FDA and
industry. Industry bears the responsibility of creating a supply of medical, food, and cosmetic products that are safe
and protect and promote public health. FDA guides and oversees industry to help ensure that Americans can have
confidence about the medical, food, and cosmetic products they are using and that they are duly warned about the
risks of tobacco products.

FDA's workforce is dedicated to helping Americans face extraordinary challenges and navigate extraordinary
opportunities. We are responsible for protecting the public health by ensuring the safety, efficacy, and security of
human and veterinary drugs, biological products, and medical devices; and by ensuring the safety of our nation's
food supply, cosmetics, and products that emit radiation. FDA also has responsibility for regulating the
manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of tobacco products to protect the public health by reducing death and
disability caused by use of tobacco products, especially in young people. In addition, the Agency is charged with
advancing the public health by helping to expedite innovations that make medical products more effective, safer,
and more affordable and by helping the public get the accurate, science-based information they need to use
medical products and foods to maintain and improve their health. FDA also plays a significant role in the nation's
counterterrorism capability by ensuring the security of the food supply and by fostering development of medical
products to respond to deliberate and naturally emerging public health threats.

In the last four years, we have experienced a once-in-a-lifetime global pandemic that resulted in the death of over
one million Americans; disrupted our way of life by impacting peoples' mental and physical health and quality of life;
led to a decline in trust in public health institutions; and exposed vulnerabilities in global supply chains, especially
for medical and food products. We also saw the value and importance of vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics for
COVID-19, and the role these products played in saving lives. We have extraordinary opportunities as well, with

                                                                                               Page 2 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

technological advancements such as mRNA vaccines, artificial intelligence (AI), and gene-editing and other gene
therapy technology, potentially enabling treatment for thousands of rare diseases that have been unapproachable
until now.

We have all witnessed the effect of rapidly advancing technology has had on the 21st Century. FDA is adapting to
this evolving world by embracing both the challenges and opportunities we face. We are leveraging flexibilities in
our regulatory pathways to enable breakthroughs in medical science that can be translated into medical products
that improve health outcomes. We are reshaping our regulatory processes and creating a nimble workforce that
adapts to new technologies, medical products, biomedical science, food science, and public health.

Globalization: Lessons Learned from the COVID-19 Pandemic

As we reflect on the devastating losses and lasting impacts the COVID-19 pandemic has had in the United States
and worldwide, we are using the lessons learned to be thoughtful about preparing for future public health
emergencies and to inform our everyday best practices.

Supply Chain Vulnerabilities

Every industry FDA regulates is at risk from global supply chain issues, and these risks have resulted in real world
consequences. During the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain vulnerabilities, including a lack of resiliency and
redundancy, impacted the availability of multiple drug products, medical devices, and infant formula.

Employing its current authorities and resources, the Agency established new and more comprehensive programs to
help address these supply chain vulnerabilities, including:

* Monitoring the availability of pharmaceuticals and medical devices by integrating data from a wide variety of
mandatory and voluntary reporting sources such as commercially available data sets, product manufacturers,
component suppliers, and active ingredient manufacturers;

* Forecasting supply chain vulnerabilities and risks by integrating data sets for analysis using artificial intelligence,
including natural language processing and machine learning, thereby enabling preemptive intervention to prevent
hundreds of threatened shortages;

* Preventing or mitigating shortages for pharmaceuticals and medical devices with strategies such as shelf-life
extensions, expedited review of manufacturing supplements and generic drug applications, exercising temporary
enforcement discretion for new sources of medically necessary drugs, and requesting that manufacturers establish
risk management plans to mitigate the potential for shortages;

* Initiating a new inspection planning system that will be more efficient, transparent, and adaptable to changing
needs, including by returning to a pre-pandemic inspection cadence in which high-impact inspections are prioritized;

* Building a workflow management system for inspections that will provide a single source of data and real-time
access to information to support the best regulatory decisions; and

* Developing new approaches to assess facilities using novel advanced techniques, such as remote regulatory
assessments and remote interactive evaluations.

We are also working to further pharmaceutical manufacturing innovation and quality to facilitate domestic advanced
manufacturing, which is a collective term for new medical product manufacturing technologies that can improve
drug quality, address shortages of medicines, and speed time-to-market. Adoption of advanced manufacturing
technologies could also result in fewer interruptions in production. For example, since 2014, the Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research's (CDER) Emerging Technology Program has held over 160 meetings with sponsors to
discuss, identify, and resolve potential technical and regulatory issues regarding the development and
implementation of novel technology. Additionally, CDER's work on advanced manufacturing has facilitated the
approval of 21 applications that use advanced manufacturing for a variety of purposes, including continuous

                                                                                               Page 3 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

manufacturing of finished dosage forms, a dialysis solution, an active pharmaceutical ingredient, a biological
product; 3-D printing technology; advanced process analytical technologies for monitoring and control of a drug
substance bioprocess; and a novel glass container closure system for a parenteral drug product. substance
bioprocess; and a novel glass container closure system for a parenteral drug product. substance bioprocess; and a
novel glass container closure system for a parenteral drug product. substance bioprocess; and a novel glass
container closure system for a parenteral drug product. substance bioprocess; and a novel glass container closure
system for a parenteral drug product. substance bioprocess; and a novel glass container closure system for a
parenteral drug product. substance bioprocess; and a novel glass container closure system for a parenteral drug
product.

Similarly, we are working to improve manufacturers' quality management systems to support a more reliable drug
supply chain. CDER is developing a quality management maturity (QMM) program that will encourage drug
manufacturers to implement quality management practices that go beyond current good manufacturing practice
(CGMP) requirements in order to minimize risks to product availability and better assure reliable market supply.
Drug manufacturers can achieve higher levels of QMM when they successfully integrate business and
manufacturing operations with quality practices and technological advances to optimize product quality, enhance
supply chain resiliency, and drive proactive continuous improvement. Adopting advanced quality management
practices supports a more reliable drug supply chain by reducing the occurrence of quality-related failures and
improving the ability of establishments to maintain performance during expected and unexpected supply chain
disruptions.

FDA remains concerned about the consolidation within the infant formula industry, which relies on inflexible supply
chains with insufficient redundancies. There are only three major domestic producers of these formulas--only two of
which produce specialized medical formulas. This means that any potential disruption--whether it be a recall or a
natural disaster--could stress formula supply. We are adopting a regulatory framework to encourage more
resiliency and redundancy in the infant formula supply, as required in Food and Drug Omnibus Reform Act of 2022
(FDORA), but many of the factors that influence global supply chains and business decisions are outside of FDA's
control. As part of this work, on March 28, 2023, FDA released the Immediate National Strategy on Infant Formula
to further increase the resiliency of the U.S. infant formula market. n1

FDA is working within its authorities to help mitigate supply chain issues, but FDA's authorities were not designed
with a complex 21st Century supply chain in mind, including the consumer's expectations for the availability of
essential products. Efforts are underway across government to address these challenges, encouraging redundancy
and resiliency measures throughout the supply chain, as well as requiring a broad governmental and industry effort
with shared responsibility. However, the Agency has identified numerous gaps in its authorities to protect
consumers and patients and the supply chain generally. Providing greater transparency into supply chains is
needed to improve resiliency and prevent and mitigate shortages of medical products and the food supply. These
priorities will enhance national security and improve public health preparedness.

The FY 2025 President's Budget includes several critical legislative proposals intended to promote FDA's efforts to
bolster supply chains and address current vulnerabilities. For drug products, this includes enhancing FDA's insight
into the drug supply chain to more effectively products, this includes enhancing FDA's insight into the drug supply
chain to more effectively products, this includes enhancing FDA's insight into the drug supply chain to more
effectively products, this includes enhancing FDA's insight into the drug supply chain to more effectively products,
this includes enhancing FDA's insight into the drug supply chain to more effectively products, this includes
enhancing FDA's insight into the drug supply chain to more effectively products, this includes enhancing FDA's
insight into the drug supply chain to more effectively products, this includes enhancing FDA's insight into the drug
supply chain to more effectively products, this includes enhancing FDA's insight into the drug supply chain to more
effectively products, this includes enhancing FDA's insight into the drug supply chain to more effectively products,
this includes enhancing FDA's insight into the drug supply chain to more effectively

FDA also seeks authority to modernize regulation of critical foods to help ensure the safety of foods consumed by
one of the most vulnerable populations--infants and young children. We propose doing this by, among other things,

                                                                                               Page 4 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

establishing binding contamination limits in foods and requiring critical foods manufacturers to report product
positive test results for pathogens to FDA regardless of whether the product has left the facility. The Agency is also
requesting new authorities to improve our oversight and enforcement activities, including to require provision of
requested records or other information in advance of (or in lieu of) inspections of food, tobacco, and cosmetic
facilities; requiring certain remote regulatory assessments; and requiring the destruction of FDA-regulated product
offered for import that has been refused entry and presents a significant health concern. FDA stands ready to work
with Congress on these and other legislative proposals.

Preparing for Public Health Emergencies

FDA has played a key role in pandemic and public health emergency response. Preparation for future public health
emergencies depends on diverse strategies--often decades in the making--as well as the establishment and
refinement of authorities and flexibilities that allow the Agency to identify and mitigate risks while promoting
innovation.

FDA used every tool in its toolbox during the COVID-19 public health emergency. FDA helped make COVID-19
vaccines available as quickly as possible while upholding our rigorous scientific and regulatory standards by
streamlining reviews. During the once in a lifetime pandemic, FDA scientists and employees worked around the
clock, cooperatively, intensively, and efficiently alongside researchers and manufacturers to minimize the time
between the clinical development process, manufacturing scale-up, and the regulatory review process. COVID-19
vaccines are one of the most significant and important public health interventions in our history, and the available
data continue to demonstrate that vaccines produce a substantial reduction in the most serious outcomes of
COVID-19, including severe illness, hospitalization, and death.

In addition, FDA granted emergency use authorization to over 500 COVID-19 tests including point-of-care (POC)
tests, rapid at-home tests; multi-analyte tests that can detect both COVID-19 and flu; tests using various sample
types, including saliva tests; and the first test using breath samples. FDA was also the first regulatory agency to
encourage development of at-home and over-the-counter (OTC) tests. We were the first to provide emergency use
authorization for an at-home test, and we ultimately authorized 41 OTC tests for emergency use, 11 of which were
authorized in four weeks or less, and five of which were authorized within a week.

We also approved and authorized several treatment options for COVID-19 with a major effect on the risk of severe
illness, hospitalization, and death. The Agency will continue to support efforts on future COVID-19 vaccine and
treatment needs, including pivoting as the virus adapts and continuing to help advance medical products to protect
the most vulnerable populations. We are also leveraging lessons learned from the COVID-19 response in our
everyday reviews, including review of rare disease therapies where ongoing and informal communication with the
Agency can be especially beneficial.

Additionally, when tackling a public health crisis, accurate, science-based communication is of paramount
importance. Improving trust in science-based organizations requires a collaborative effort. FDA is working to build
more effective relationships with the public, front line clinicians (doctors, nurses, pharmacists, etc.), biomedical
scientists, and educators; we plan to improve their ability to provide more accurate and reliable information to inform
choices about health and healthcare.

As we reflect on the devastating losses and lasting impacts the COVID-19 pandemic has had worldwide, we will
use the lessons learned and knowledge gained to be thoughtful about preparing for future public health
emergencies and to inform our future response efforts both in times of crisis and in everyday best practices. This
includes continuing to leverage existing relationships with entities outside of FDA in emergency response situations.
The Agency's capacity to drive future emergency responses depends on positive relationships and communication
channels from continued collaborations with regulatory, academic, state, tribal, local, territorial, and industry
partners even in the absence of a crisis.

Improving Life Expectancy

                                                                                               Page 5 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

The trends in life expectancy in the United States are concerning, which show us below most of our high-income
peer countries. Many highly educated and wealthy Americans have a life expectancy near that of other high-income
counties, while various combinations of race, ethnicity, sex, lifestyle, education, and rural or underserved urban
location result in a large part of the U.S. population with high mortality rates and poor health throughout their
lifespan--from high infant mortality rates to excess deaths from chronic diseases.

As we experience an unprecedented reversal of previous progress in chronic diseases, mental health, and drug
overdoses, FDA is reviewing what we can do to help the industries we regulate more successfully promote health
and longevity. The dramatic improvement in cancer and rare disease therapies and the COVID-19 response shows
that if we are strategic in pursuit of the science, we can move disease outcomes in a positive direction, particularly if
we combine improved screening, diagnosis, and therapy with access and affordability.

Poor nutrition, tobacco use, and drug overdoses are also key health factors directly in our purview, and FDA can
make important differences in these areas. Fully recognizing the importance of social determinants of health and
health system priorities, we are working to understand all that we can do within our sphere of direct influence to
reverse these negative understand all that we can do within our sphere of direct influence to reverse these negative

Food Safety and Nutrition

FDA continues to make great progress on our food safety and nutrition efforts, which can help to combat the
epidemic of diet-related disease.

The United States has one of the safest food supplies in the world as judged by an independent review by The
Economist. Tremendous progress has been made, working with the broad ecosystem of states, territories, local
governments, tribes, and the industry to make the American food supply as safe as it has ever been. Since the
passage of the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act in 2011, we have worked diligently to implement the landmark
law and modernize our food safety regulatory oversight and capabilities. We have also developed and used
advanced technology, such as whole genome sequencing, n2 to reduce foodborne illness cases, enhancing not
only our response to outbreaks but also our surveillance of foodborne pathogens.

As part of our role in safeguarding the food supply, FDA is continuing to take action. For example, as part of the
Agency's work to continue enhancing the safety of infant formula, FDA sent a letter to industry with
recommendations for industry-wide improvements to identify and address Cronobacter. We are also working to
learn more about Cronobacter to provide guidance to industry to help control for it in the manufacturing
environment. Additionally, we are evaluating the use of chemicals as food ingredients and substances that come
into contact with food and monitor the food supply for contaminants. The Agency takes action when we find that a
food is unsafe. For example, in 2023, FDA took action within a few days after it was made aware of extremely high
levels of lead contamination in certain applesauce products. FDA informed the public and worked with state officials
and the manufacturer, collecting additional information to investigate the source of lead contamination, and taking
steps to remove all unsafe products from the market as well as implementing increased screening of imported
products. This example also highlights the important role that state, local, and territorial governments play in helping
to ensure a safe food supply. However, we currently face limitations on sharing certain regulated commodity
information in real time with states. We are requesting the authority for focused disclosure of non-public information
to state, local, and U.S. territorial government agencies with counterpart functions related to FDA-regulated
products, which would allow FDA to take swift action to protect the supply chain integrity and the public.

In addition to monitoring the food supply in general, FDA has prioritized reducing childhood exposure to
contaminants in food. Environmental contaminants can be present in foods because they are in the soil, water, or
air where foods are grown, raised, or processed. FDA's Closer to Zero initiative sets forth the Agency's approach to
reducing exposure to lead, arsenic, cadmium, and mercury in foods commonly eaten by babies and young children
to the lowest possible levels. We have prioritized babies and young children given their vulnerability to the harmful
effects of these contaminants. It is a multi-phase, science-based, iterative approach to encourage industry to adopt

                                                                                               Page 6 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

agriculture and processing practices and achieve our goal of getting levels of these environmental contaminants in
foods closer to zero over time.

Nutrition is also a priority at FDA. Americans are facing an ever-growing epidemic of diet-related chronic diseases
such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and arthritis, with many of these problems associated with combinations
of poor nutrition and obesity. We are committed to finding new ways to help consumers build healthy eating
patterns, including through improved information about healthier nutritional choices, given our unique position and
authorities. Front and center is FDA's development of a front-of-package labeling system to quickly communicate
and provide additional context to certain nutrition information. This has the potential to be as iconic as the Nutrition
Facts label. Front-of-package labeling could help consumers, especially those who may be less familiar with
nutritional information, identify foods that can help them build a healthy eating pattern.

Relatedly, FDA is also working on an improved framework to regulate dietary supplements. This enormous industry
continues to grow, and dietary supplements are now part of everyday life for many families. We will continue to
work with Congress to gain authority to require dietary supplement manufacturers to list their products, including
their ingredients, with FDA. In the long run, with these authorities, we would have a better understanding of how the
landscape is evolving with new ingredients coming onto the market, so that FDA will be better able to quickly
identify dangerous or illegal products and protect consumers.

Combating the Overdose Crisis

Preventing substance use disorders and reducing overdose deaths remain areas of major focus for FDA. We
continue to take actions aligned with the HHS Overdose Prevention Strategy and the President's Unity Agenda
commitment to beating the opioid epidemic, and the four priorities outlined in FDA's Overdose Prevention
Framework, including primary prevention, harm reduction, evidence-based treatment, and protecting the public from
unapproved, diverted, or counterfeit drugs. With overdose deaths at an all-time high, FDA is doing all we can to
help ensure life-saving opioid overdose reversal agents, like naloxone, are more accessible. We also required
industry to update the prescribing information for all opioids to provide additional guidance for safe use. In
alignment with recommendations from an independent evaluation of our opioid-related activities, we are focusing on
evidence generation and clinical trial designs to better understand when long-term use of opioids is beneficial and
when they should be discontinued in a safe manner, as well as considering additional authorities needed to further
help ensure the safe use of these products.

Cannabis and Hemp-Derived Products

In January 2023, FDA concluded that the existing regulatory pathways for foods and dietary supplements are not
appropriate for cannabidiol (CBD). However, we recognize that consumers want access to these products. That is
why FDA announced that the Agency is prepared to work with Congress on a new regulatory pathway that would
provide access, safeguards, and oversight over products containing CBD in ways that existing pathways cannot.
Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, any substance, including CBD, must meet specific safety
standards to be lawfully marketed as a dietary supplement or food additive. n3 The use of CBD raises safety
concerns, especially with long-term use. Studies have shown evidence of liver toxicity, interactions with certain
medications and possible harm to the male reproductive system. CBD exposure is particularly concerning for
children and during pregnancy. Accordingly, FDA has exposure is particularly concerning for children and during
pregnancy. Accordingly, FDA has exposure is particularly concerning for children and during pregnancy.
Accordingly, FDA has exposure is particularly concerning for children and during pregnancy. Accordingly, FDA has

Regulating Tobacco Products

FDA's Center for Tobacco Products (CTP) reached several important milestones in 2023, including the release of a
new five-year strategic plan in December. The plan was the outcome of a year-long process that sought input from
CTP staff and external stakeholders, including a public listening session. Guided by the new strategic plan, CTP
aims to reduce the negative health effects caused by tobacco product use by providing information to discourage

                                                                                               Page 7 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

people from starting to use tobacco products, encourage people who use tobacco products to quit, and reduce the
harm caused by tobacco product use.

Over the past year, there has been significant progress in key tobacco product use behaviors in the U.S.
population. For example, cigarette smoking--which is responsible for the overwhelming burden of tobacco-related
disease and death in the United States--has declined steadily among adults and youth for decades and currently
remains at unprecedented lows. Moreover, over the past year, there was a significant decrease in overall tobacco
product use among high school students, which was primarily driven by a decline in e-cigarette use. There are now
less than half the number of U.S. youth using e-cigarettes compared with the peak in 2019. However, despite these
important wins for public health, our work is not finished. Almost 30 million U.S. adults continue to smoke cigarettes
and in 2023, more than two million U.S. youth use e-cigarettes. We will continue to advance public health through
our application review process, regulation development, and public education efforts.

Regarding compliance and enforcement actions, in 2023, the Agency issued warning letters to more than 120
manufacturers and distributors and more than 400 retailers; filed over 40 civil money penalty complaints against
manufacturers and over 65 against retailers; and collaborated with our federal partners at the U.S. Customs and
Border Protection to seize approximately 1.4 million units of unauthorized e-cigarette products with an estimated
retail value of more than $18 million; among other actions. We remain committed to advancing our important, life-
saving vision to reduce the health burden of tobacco product use in the United States, which remains the leading
cause of preventable disease and death nationally.

Emerging Technologies

Staying ahead of the rapid advancements made across regulated industries is one of the most challenging and
exciting aspects of FDA's work. Biomedical discovery science, computing, and engineering take decades to mature
to develop safe and effective products. FDA is most effective when our regulatory strategies provide pathways for
innovative products to be developed in a manner that most effectively balances innovation, access, and safety. We
are at such a point with gene editing for rare diseases and in the application of artificial intelligence across the
spectrum of products FDA regulates. Through cooperation with private industry, Congress, and the public, we
believe that FDA can help harness these groundbreaking advancements to benefit the American people.

Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML)

FDA recognizes that the increased use of AI, including ML, across all our regulated industries presents new and
unique challenges and opportunities. For example, FDA has seen a significant increase in the number of drug and
biologic application submissions using AI/ML components over the past few years. We have been preparing for this
major technology wave and, to respond to this evolving landscape, FDA has accelerated its efforts to create an
agile regulatory ecosystem that can facilitate innovation while safeguarding public health.

As part of this effort, CDER, in collaboration with the CBER and the Center for Devices and Radiological Health
(CDRH), issued an initial discussion paper to communicate with a range of stakeholders and to explore relevant
considerations for the use of AI/ML in the development of drugs, biological products, and medical devices intended
to be used with drugs. n4 The Agency will continue to solicit feedback as it advances regulatory science in this
area.

CDRH has reviewed and authorized a growing number of devices with AI/ML through various authorization
pathways across many different fields of medicine--and expects this trend to continue. Supporting responsible
development of AI/ML medical devices and assuring timely access for U.S. patients has been a top priority for
years; the Center continues work with innovators and relevant institutions to have clear, predictable, and timely
potential paths to market to facilitate patient access to innovative, safe, and effective devices. FDA has approved,
authorized, or cleared over 700 AI/ML devices, including:

* A cardiac ultrasound software that uses AI to guide the user;

                                                                                               Page 8 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

* An AI-based device that assists clinicians in detecting lesions (such as polyps or suspected tumors) in the colon in
real time during a colonoscopy;

* A diagnostic aid for autism spectrum disorder; and

* An AI-based device to detect greater than a mild level of the eye disease diabetic retinopathy in adults who have
diabetes.

Overall, FDA's efforts are focused on ensuring that the United States is a leader in AI/ML medical devices, including
by ensuring that the Agency's approaches keep the United States ahead of its global competitors and so AI is
developed and deployed responsibly in healthcare. FDA believes there is no "one-size fits all" approach for AI.
FDA's Digital Health Center of Excellence within CDRH leads policy and evaluation of medical devices with AI and
other digital health technologies at FDA and has worked to be a resource for developers of cutting-edge technology
by publishing an AI Action Plan, providing guidance, issuing guiding principles on good machine learning practices,
and engaging on efforts towards international harmonization, among other efforts.

AI will undoubtedly play a critical role in medical product development, and FDA is making every effort to remain
nimble and support innovation. Furthermore, the use of AI to optimize supply chains and reach consumers is
already having a significant impact on food and tobacco, and we will be prepared to deal with the changing
landscape beyond the medical product arena. As we consider and adopt a risk-based regulatory framework we will
need Congress' support. We look forward to working together to promote innovation while protecting patient safety.

Real World Data and Evidence

FDA has a long history of using real-world data (RWD) and real-world evidence (RWE) to support marketing
authorization of medical devices and monitor and evaluate the post-market safety of drugs and devices. FDA is
working with sponsors, patient advocates, and other stakeholders, such as data aggregators, to realize the full
potential of RWD and RWE in clinical trial design to facilitate development of novel medical products. We are
committed to realizing the full potential of fit-for-purpose RWD to generate RWE that will advance the development
of therapeutic products and strengthen regulatory oversight of medical products across their lifecycle.

New Approvals and Pathways

Accelerating the availability of safe and effective drugs and therapeutics that treat serious diseases is in everyone's
interest, especially when the drugs are the first available treatment or have advantages over existing treatments.
The Agency continues to evaluate a wide variety of new drugs, biologics, and therapies, including for new settings,
new uses, and new patient populations, and whether such products meet the requirements for marketing
authorization. As a science-led organization, FDA uses the best scientific and technological information available to
make decisions through a deliberative process.

For example, in 2023 CBER approved gene therapies for the treatment of rare diseases such as sickle cell disease
and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. CBER also approved vaccines to prevent respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
disease (including the first maternal vaccination to protect infants from RSV disease). In 2023, CDER also approved
therapies for neurological conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease and migraines. Moreover, we took approval
actions for drugs targeting type 2 diabetes in children, different types of anemia, and chronic weight management,
among other heart, blood, kidney, and endocrine disorders. In oncology, approvals included treatments for
colorectal, prostate, lung, and low-grade gliomas (tumors that start in the brain). In the area of women's health,
CDER approved treatments for postpartum depression, hot flashes due to menopause, and over-the-counter oral
contraception.

The Agency is also committed to helping patients with rare diseases, recognizing that they often have no or few
treatment options. In 2023, over half of new molecular entities approved were indicated for orphan-designated
diseases or conditions. Examples include a therapy for acid sphingomyelinase deficiency (Niemann-Pick disease

                                                                                               Page 9 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

type A, B, A/B, an inherited disease that affects fat metabolism); generalized pustular psoriasis (a life-threatening
skin disease); and obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (a disease in which the heart muscle thickens).

Through our Humanitarian Device Exemption pathway, we approved devices for acute kidney injury due to sepsis in
children as small as 22 pounds, and a non-invasive and radiation-free therapy for osteoid osteomas, a benign but
painful bone tumor that occurs predominantly in children and young adults. In addition, there have been approvals
to prevent, diagnose or treat rare diseases including drugs for Friedreich's ataxia (an inherited, degenerative
disease that damages the nervous system); paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (a disease that causes red blood
cells to break apart); and activated phosphoinositide 3-kinase delta (a genetic disorder that impairs the immune
system).

FDA balances regulatory flexibility, necessary to address challenges in rare disease drug development, with the
need to adhere to statutory and regulatory requirements for establishing safety and effectiveness to support an
approval. Regulatory flexibilities include, for example, Accelerated Approval based on a surrogate or intermediate
clinical endpoint for serious conditions with an unmet medical need, reliance on one adequate and well-controlled
trial, use of natural history study data as a source of external control data, novel trial designs, and novel statistical
methodologies.

In addition, under FDA's Breakthrough Devices Program, the Agency may consider health disparities and unmet
needs in rare disease populations when evaluating requests for breakthrough device designation. That program has
recently supported the marketing authorization of digital health technologies assisting in the management of rare
conditions such as seizure disorders and obstruction to cerebrospinal fluid flow. FDA knows much of the
groundbreaking technology in science will benefit rare disease populations in particular, and we are already thinking
through creative solutions and changes to our regulatory processes that may be needed as these innovations come
to the market.

FDA also continues its commitment to fostering innovation in the medical device industry and helping to bring
important new technologies to patients, as we continue to see high numbers of novel medical device authorizations.
In 2023, CDRH authorized the highest number of novel devices on record (excluding EUAs) in CDRH's more than
40-year history. n5 One example includes our clearance of the first over-the-counter fentanyl test--a testament to
the Agency's commitment to further advance bringing health care into the home setting.

Animal Health and the One Health Approach

The world is in a period of rapid change in a way that calls for the evolution of animal and veterinary products.
Climate change, human encroachment on previously wild environments, international conflict, and global travel and
trade all have the potential to increase disease transmission, environmental stressors, and pathologic challenges.
FDA and the industries we regulate have access to an array of modern technologies to combat these threats,
including new technologies that can deliver a more resilient and robust food production system, to help ensure food-
producing animals and their environments are healthier, hardier, and deliver consumers more choices in the foods
they eat. These technologies can be used to monitor, prevent, control, and treat increasing animal health
challenges, such as zoonotic and animal infectious disease threats--leading to healthier animals, communities, and
ecosystems.

FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM) takes a One Health approach, recognizing that human, animal, and
environmental health are connected, and that innovative transdisciplinary approaches and technologies hold great
potential to address challenges across these sectors. CVM is facilitating animal and veterinary product development
across the board, developing strategies for approval pathways that enable the relevant industries to develop more
safe, novel products and products for unmet human and animal needs--such as monoclonal antibody therapies,
gene therapies, intentional genomic alterations (IGAs) in animals, cell-based animal foods, and animal cell and
tissue-based products. We are continuously improving efficiencies in our thorough, risk and science-based review
processes.

Agency's Largest Reorganization in History

                                                                                             Page 10 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

Lastly, the Agency has made significant progress on plans to create a unified Human Foods Program (HFP) and a
new model for the Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA). These proposed changes will strengthen the Agency's
oversight and protection of the human food supply and enhance our oversight of the broad expanse of regulated
products. After more than a year of proposal development and engaging with internal and external constituencies
following the findings and recommendations of the Reagan-Udall Foundation (RUF) evaluation, FDA transmitted a
reorganization package to Congress on March 8, 2024.

FDA's reorganization proposal is Agency-wide, closely tracks the Agency's implementation of the RUF
recommendations, and enhances the Agency's infant formula response processes following the Abbott infant
formula recall in February 2022. For example, FDA's vision is to:

* Unify human foods functions currently split across the Agency, including the Center for Food Safety and Applied
Nutrition (CFSAN), the Office of Food Policy and Response (OFPR), and certain ORA functions into the new HFP
under the direction of the Deputy Commissioner for Human Foods.

* Create a Nutrition Center of Excellence that prioritizes the Agency's efforts to reduce diet-related chronic disease.
We have proposed establishing an Office of Critical Foods (OCF), as directed by the 2023 Consolidated
Appropriations Act, within this Center.

* Reevaluate the Agency's infant formula staffing needs and provided substantive input for the development of
OCF. FDA has now begun to announce, interview, and staff many positions related to the OCF as well as other
positions, which will help to support infant formula oversight and regulation.

* Establish an Office of Integrated Food Safety System Partnerships, which will enable greater collaboration with
our state and local regulatory partners and support state-level inspectional activities to help meet the vision of an
Integrated Food Safety System, as envisioned in the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011, more effectively.

* Improve the process for handling whistleblower and consumer complaints at HFP and the Centers, which will
refine the processing of complaints, ultimately improving our ability to detect and address issues sooner.

* Focus ORA's mission and rename ORA as the Office of Inspections and Investigations (OII), solidifying its role as
the frontline of FDA's field-based inspection, investigation, and import operations.

* Establish a specialized critical foods investigator cadre, which will solely focus on the inspection and oversight of
the infant formula (and other critical foods) industry. Hiring for the cadre is currently underway, and specialized
training programs are continuously being developed, piloted, and deployed as a part of that effort.

* Establish an Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) in the Office of the Commissioner to strengthen central
coordination of cross-agency medical issues, including special populations such as people with rare diseases and
children. This includes a new Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response to support medical
countermeasure policy, Public Health Preparedness and Response to support medical countermeasure policy, *
Merge the Office of Counterterrorism and Emerging Threats (OCET) and the Office of

* Create an Office of Enterprise Transformation in the Office of the Commissioner to work across FDA to drive high-
priority cross-cutting business process improvement efforts in order to use Agency resources more efficiently and
strategically.

FDA remains committed to keeping Congress and the public up to date as the proposal is finalized.

Conclusion

The essential work of the Agency continues in thousands of ways that Americans and the world count on every day.
This work is accomplished thanks to the dedication and perseverance of FDA staff. We look forward to continuing to
work with Congress on the Agency's mission, including by strengthening FDA's authorities in the areas of supply
chain resiliency, hemp-derived products, infant formula, and more. Thank you again for the opportunity to testify.

                                                                                             Page 11 of 11
     House Oversight and Accountability Committee Hearing "Oversight of the Food and Drug Administration."
                               Testimony by Robert Califf, FDA Commissioner

n1         https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-outlines-immediate-national-strategy-further-
increase-resiliency-us-infant-formula-market

n2 https://www.fda.gov/food/whole-genome-sequencing-wgs-program/genometrakr-fast-facts

n3    https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-concludes-existing-regulatory-frameworks-foods-
and-supplements-are-not-appropriate-cannabidiol

n4 https://www.fda.gov/media/167973/download?attachment

n5 https://www.fda.gov/media/175479/download?attachment

Read this original document at: https://oversight.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/FDA-House-Oversight-
and-Accountability-Testimony.pdf


Load-Date: April 15, 2024


  
