

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 2
   Tintri to Unveil New Disaster Recovery Feature for Lightning-Fast System Restoration at VMware Explore Las
                                                   Vegas 2024




   Tintri to Unveil New Disaster Recovery Feature for Lightning-Fast System
                 Restoration at VMware Explore Las Vegas 2024
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           August 22, 2024 Thursday 6:15 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 796 words
Dateline: CHATSWORTH, Calif., Aug. 22, 2024

Body


PR NewswireTintri to Exhibit VM-Aware, AI-Powered Data Management Solutions, Demo Live Technology
Sessions and Present Insights on Intelligent Data Management for Virtualized EnvironmentsCHATSWORTH, Calif.,
Aug. 22, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Tintri®, a DDN® subsidiary, and leading provider of the world's first VM-aware, AI-
powered data management solutions, will be exhibiting at VMware Explore Las Vegas at booth #1518 from Aug.
26-29, 2024 and will be unveiling GLAS-DP – a new suite of disaster recovery features now available for Tintri
customers. Attendees can see demos and experience how GLAS-DP autonomously detects, alerts and enables
rapid recovery from a ransomware event.GLAS-DP enables customers to employ extensive recovery capabilities
via theTintri Global Center™ (TGC)-AI platform leveraging the real time I/O stream and metadata ofVMstore™
devices. The new capabilities enable instantaneous alerts on potential threats to streamline lightning-fast recovery.
GLAS-DP allows IT managers to quickly restore points, recover within milliseconds, and roll forward – allowing for
an efficient workflow with minimal downtime in the event of a ransomware breach. For an additional level of
security, two factor authentication is included with the suite.Tintri will also be showcasing its AI-powered data
management solutions for virtualized workloads, including:

VMstore: Intelligent data management system, which was purpose-built for virtualized infrastructures – specifically
virtual servers, VDI and SQL databases, and has been truly VM-aware since 2011.Tintri Cloud Platform™: Full
turnkey offering that enables customers to experience the benefits of a Tintri VMstore-powered managed cloud.
Seamlessly delivering infrastructure and host-in-cloud and process-in-cloud capabilities. Attendees will be able to
sign up for a free, no obligation 30-day trial.Tintri Cloud Engine™: Container-driven platform that provides
customers with the flexibility to deploy Tintri technologies outside of the private data center by decoupling Tintri's
AI-powered software from the VMstore T7000 hardware platform.Additionally, Tintri will hostGeek Out! LIVE
Technology Demo Sessionsthroughout the duration of the show in the Tintri booth. Topics will include VMstore
intelligent data management system, Tintri Cloud Platform managed infrastructure, analytics, VDI, DevOps, SQL
databases, and ransomware/data protection/disaster recovery.Tintri executives Phil Trickovic, SVP, and Brock
Mowry, CTO, will also leadBreakout and Expo sessionson the following topics:Breakout Session: "Platform
Entropy? Unlocking Autonomy's Potential" – Trickovic and Mowry, will provide insight on how to unleash the
potential of autonomy in critical business operations. They will discuss how to overcome the hurdles that come with
implementing intelligent data architecture and management platforms, and practical solutions and strategies to turn
challenges into opportunities for growth and innovation. This session will take place on Tuesday, Aug. 27 from

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
   Tintri to Unveil New Disaster Recovery Feature for Lightning-Fast System Restoration at VMware Explore Las
                                                   Vegas 2024

10:30 – 11:15 a.m. PDT in the Marcello 4503 on level four.Expo Session: "Are VMs Considered Legacy
Technology?" – Even with the advent of newer IT infrastructure technologies like containers which can offer
resource efficiency, rapid deployment, and scalability, VMs continue to be widely used especially in enterprise
environments. Mowry will explore the role of VMs in contemporary IT systems, including legacy systems and hybrid
environments where VMs can potentially coexist with containers and other architectures. This session will take
place on Tuesday, Aug. 27 from 12:30 – 12:50 p.m. PDT in The Expo Theater, Hall B on level
two.AvailabilityGLAS-DP will be available for customers leveraging Tintri Global Center AI platform in September
2024. For more information, contact a Tintri sales representative or visithttps://tintri.com/company/talk-to-an-
expert/.About TintriTintri, a wholly owned subsidiary of DataDirect Networks (DDN), delivers purpose-built
solutions to store and manage virtual workloads in enterprise data centers. Thousands of customers have saved
countless administrative hours using Tintri's innovative technologies. Explore the Tintri portfolio of solutions
athttps://www.tintri.com.Contact:Walt & Company, on behalf of Tintri
Sharon Sumrit, 408.369.7200

©2024 All rights reserved. DDN, Tintri, Tintri Global Center, VMstore, Tintri Cloud Platform, and Tintri Cloud Engine
are trademarks or registered trademarks owned by DataDirect Networks. All other trademarks are the property of
their respective owners. View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tintri-to-unveil-new-
disaster-recovery-feature-for-lightning-fast-system-restoration-at-vmware-explore-las-vegas-2024-
302228100.htmlSOURCE Tintri


Load-Date: August 22, 2024


  
