

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
     Fiber Connect 2024 Proof of Concepts to Demonstrate Fiber Broadband 's Ability to Advance Connectivity,
                          Subscriber Experience Eight new concepts at the Fiber Br....




 Fiber Connect 2024 Proof of Concepts to Demonstrate Fiber Broadband's
Ability to Advance Connectivity, Subscriber Experience; Eight new concepts
at the Fiber Broadband Association's annual conference will help accelerate
          fiber's future applications throughout the Connected Home
                                                   Business Wire
                                      July 10, 2024 Wednesday 1:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1125 words
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Fiber Broadband Association (FBA) today announced the Proof of Concept (PoC) demonstrations planned for
Fiber Connect 2024 , July 28-31, in Nashville, Tenn. Seventeen companies will participate in eight PoC
demonstrations that showcase how Connected Home innovations and services improve subscriber experience by
leveraging the capacity, scale, latency, and/or security that only fiber broadband provides.

"These concepts will demonstrate the power of the fiber broadband ecosystem on the subscriber experience and
fiber's ability to support disruption, change market dynamics, and push the boundaries of possibilities," said Evann
Freeman, Fiber Broadband Association Board Member and Conference Committee Chair, and Vice President of
Government & Community Relations at EPB of Chattanooga. "Our industry has some of the brightest minds at work
to solve the connectivity challenges ahead as we look to connect every household in America, push past current
technology limitations, and open up new frontiers with AI, Machine Learning, Quantum Networking, and many other
exciting innovations."

Fiber Connect 2024 PoCs will be collaborative projects involving at least one member company of FBA or
Broadband Forum (BBF), and many will leverage one of two BBF Connected Home specifications: BBF.247 GPON
ONU , which focuses on multi-vendor interoperability between OLTs (Optical Line Terminals) and ONUs (Optical
Network Units), or BBF.369 User Services Platform (USP), which represents a fully realized managed services
ecosystem for adding value to the connected home. PoCs can also demonstrate one or more services and
applications outside of these specifications, if they do not apply, that support the conference theme of "Accelerating
our Fiber Future" and could include innovative IoT, Artificial Intelligence, security, and other Smart Home or
connectivity options.

"We are delighted to take part in the Fiber Connect PoC presentations and demonstrate how our standards enable
seamless smart home services and subscriber management beyond the fiber connection point," said Ken Pyle,
Director of Marketing at Broadband Forum. "These cutting-edge demonstrations will bring together key players from
across the industry and highlight the importance of interoperability and standardization in creating a customer-
centric ecosystem, while improving operational efficiency, time-to-market for new applications, and opening up
business opportunities for service providers."

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
    Fiber Connect 2024 Proof of Concepts to Demonstrate Fiber Broadband 's Ability to Advance Connectivity,
                         Subscriber Experience Eight new concepts at the Fiber Br....

The 2024 Proof of Concept demonstrations include:
   •    Empowering Connectivity: Collaborative Approach to Overcoming Broadband Challenges in Unserved and
        Underserved Communities - presented by Ciena, Heights Telecom, Cambridge Industries Group Inc, and
        Axiros
       •    This PoC implements a secure, flexible, and cost-effective broadband network to provide rural
            connectivity while enabling network operators to deliver service differentiation and monetize their fiber
            investment, generate more significant revenue, and form the basis for long-term financial success.
   •    B2C Value-Added Services Automation to Maximize CSP Fiber Investments - presented by Incognito,
        Harmonic, KAON Broadband
       •    This PoC leverages network automation to reduce OPEX and uses standards and open APIs to reduce
            IT costs and expedite time to market for new CSP products.
   •    Fiber Optic Sensing in Telecom Applications - presented by Fiber Optic Sensing Association (FOSA), Luna
        Innovations, and Underline Infrastructure
       •    This PoC enables network operators to monitor physical cable plant to detect threats, prevent damage,
            pinpoint and categorize events, and more.
   •    Corteca Cloud as a USP-Based, Multi-Vendor Wi-Fi Management + Device Management Solution -
        presented by Nokia and Singel
       •    This PoC presents a multi-vendor management platform that supports device management, application
            management, and Wi-Fi management of a 3rd party Wi-Fi access point in a mesh network.
   •    Empowering Interoperability to Accelerate Fiber to the Home and Deliver Service Excellence - presented
        by Calix and Zyxel Communications
       •    This PoC simplifies integration between systems, devices, and managed services for the connected
            home, dramatically improving operational efficiency and speed to market.
   •    Wholesale Open Access for FTTH Networks - presented by Nokia and Condor Technologies
       •    This PoC presents an enhanced wholesale API and UI for FTTH networks that give VNO tenants
            autonomy and flexibility and gives operators the ability to increase take rate and ROI of their fiber
            investment, attract more VNOs, and increase wholesale revenues by 23%.
   •    Empowering Connectivity: Enhancing Short-Term Rentals with Flexible Internet Packages - presented by
        CompaxDigital
       •    This PoC demonstrates a flexible billing and customer management approach that makes it easy to
            add additional services so short-term rental providers can increase revenue while enhancing customer
            satisfaction.
   •    Free Space Optical Communication - presented by Taara
       •    This PoC showcases the role of wireless optical communication (WOC) technology in helping bridge
            middle mile gaps in broadband infrastructure and highlights three use cases: fiber backup, high-
            capacity backhaul at temporary or seasonal event venues, and disaster relief.

PoCs will be presented in the Fiber Connect 2024 Expo Hall, July 29-30, and evaluated by leading industry
analysts. Awards will be presented in the following categories: Most Innovative PoC, Best Community Impact, and
Game Changer.

To learn more about Fiber Connect 2024, visit the conference website here or subscribe to FBA's Fiber Forward
Weekly newsletter here to stay updated on conference news and more.

About the Fiber Broadband Association

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
    Fiber Connect 2024 Proof of Concepts to Demonstrate Fiber Broadband 's Ability to Advance Connectivity,
                         Subscriber Experience Eight new concepts at the Fiber Br....

The Fiber Broadband Association is the largest and only trade association that represents the complete fiber
ecosystem of service providers, manufacturers, industry experts, and deployment specialists dedicated to the
advancement of fiber broadband deployment and the pursuit of a world where communications are limitless,
advancing quality of life and digital equity anywhere and everywhere. The Fiber Broadband Association helps
providers, communities, and policymakers make informed decisions about how, where, and why to build better fiber
broadband networks. Since 2001, these companies, organizations, and members have worked with communities
and consumers in mind to build the critical infrastructure that provides the economic and societal benefits that only
fiber can deliver. The Fiber Broadband Association is part of the Fibre Council Global Alliance, which is a platform
of six global FTTH Councils in North America, LATAM, Europe, MEA, APAC, and South Africa. Learn more at
fiberbroadband.org .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240710172607/en/


CONTACT: Autumn Minnich
Connect2 Communications for the Fiber Broadband Association

FBA@connect2comm.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 10, 2024


  
