

                                                                                             Page 1 of 4
      JumpCloud 's Q1 2024 SME IT Trends Report Reveals AI Optimism Tempered by Security Concerns AI,
                       Security Posture, and Layoff Worries Dominate IT Teams in 2024




JumpCloud's Q1 2024 SME IT Trends Report Reveals AI Optimism Tempered
by Security Concerns; AI, Security Posture, and Layoff Worries Dominate IT
                              Teams in 2024
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                          February 14, 2024 Wednesday 2:01 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: MARKET RESEARCH REPORTS
Length: 1577 words

Body

LOUISVILLE, Colo., Feb. 14, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- JumpCloud Inc., today announced the findings from
its Q1 2024 small to medium-sized enterprise (SME) IT Trends Report, “State of IT 2024: The Rise of AI, Economic
Uncertainty, and Evolving Security Threats”. The report provides updated survey results and new findings to the
company’s biannual SME IT Trends Report, which was first released in June 2021. The latest edition of the report
delves into the impact of artificial intelligence (AI) on identity management, security challenges, economic
uncertainties, and the growing reliance on managed service providers (MSPs) in IT operations.

JumpCloud commissioned this biannual survey of SME IT admins to gain unique insights into the day-to-day
experiences of IT professionals who power and secure operations without enterprise-level budgets and staff. The
most recent survey results, polled from admins in the U.S., U.K., and India, indicates how quickly AI has impacted
identity management and highlights that IT professionals have both big hopes and big fears in their response to it.
With a strong majority of respondents both planning or actively implementing within the next year and advocating
for AI investment, IT leaders clearly see potential benefits from deploying AI in their workplaces. But IT admins
report notable concerns around their organizations’ current ability to secure against related threats—and personal
concerns about AI’s impact on their career.

“While AI is the buzzword that grabs headlines, it’s security that remains a paramount concern for IT teams given
the increasing sophistication of external threats and rising regulatory pressures,” said Rajat Bhargava, CEO,
JumpCloud. “And it’s only getting worse. We found that 56% of admins agree that they’re more concerned about
their organization’s security posture now than they were six months ago. To reduce this complexity and anxiety,
organizations should look toward solutions that offer a unified, open identity and IT management approach. This
can enhance security, mitigate operational disruptions, and alleviate admin burnout.”

                                                                                               Page 2 of 4
        JumpCloud 's Q1 2024 SME IT Trends Report Reveals AI Optimism Tempered by Security Concerns AI,
                         Security Posture, and Layoff Worries Dominate IT Teams in 2024

The results of the JumpCloud Q1 2024 SME IT Trends Report are available in JumpCloud’s eBook, “State of IT
2024: The Rise of AI, Economic Uncertainty, and Evolving Security Threats,” which can be downloaded for free
here.

Key findings include:

AI Adoption: Optimism and ConcernsA vast majority of admins see AI as a net positive for their organization and
think their organization is approaching AI at the right pace—though this optimism is tempered by significant
concerns about AI’s potential impact on security and individual careers.

Topline AI findings include:
    •     Organizations are actively planning for AI: Just 13% of organizations do not currently have any plans to
          implement AI initiatives and 76% agree their organization should be investing in AI.
    •     Admins optimistic about AI: 79% report that AI will be a net positive, versus just 6% who see it as a net
          negative. Most admins agree their organizations are approaching AI adoption at exactly the right speed
          (55%). Roughly equal amounts think they are moving too quickly (22%) or too slow (19%).
    •     IT teams are wary about AI’s potential for organizational security and career: 62% agree that AI is
          outpacing their organization’s ability to protect against threats overall and nearly half (45%) worry about
          AI’s impact on their job.

Uncertainty for ITThe start of 2024 finds SMEs continuing to wrestle with economic uncertainties and IT teams
unsure about what that means for their organizations and their operations.

Topline IT management findings include:
    •     Concerns about layoffs persist: 57% of organizations have experienced layoffs over the last year. Just over
          a quarter (27%) haven’t experienced layoffs and don’t expect any over the next six months.
    •     Admins worried about the impact of budget cuts on security: 72% agree that any cuts to their security
          budget will increase organizational risk, and 56% are more concerned about their organizations’ security
          posture than they were six months ago.
    •     Licensing costs increase while compliance mandates expand: 88% report vendors have increased prices
          over the last six months, and 76% report increased compliance and regulations requirements in their
          region.
    •     Device environments require IT flexibility, with Windows use down and macOS and Linux use up year-
          over-year: The average device type breakdown in SMEs is Windows at 60% (down from 64% in April
          2023), macOS at 22% (up from 20% in April 2023), and Linux at 22% (up from 16% in April 2023).
    •     IT admins want centralized IT: 75% of IT professionals would prefer a single tool to do their job over a
          number of point solutions. In practice, admins most commonly need five to 10 applications to manage
          worker lifecycle (37%), though nearly one-quarter (22%) need 11 or more, and nearly 1 in 10 (9%) require
          more than 15 applications to manage worker lifecycle.

Security Challenges Persist as Admins Adjust Their Response IT teams continue to report that security concerns
continue to dominate among the various challenges and responsibilities they manage. With the rise of AI and the
evolving sophistication of cybersecurity threats, IT admins are adapting their responses and deploying additional
layers of protection.

Topline security findings include:
    •     IT admins’ biggest challenge is security: 56% report security is the biggest IT challenge, followed by new
          services and application rollouts (45%), increased work burden (44%), followed by the cost of remote work
          solutions (42%).

                                                                                              Page 3 of 4
       JumpCloud 's Q1 2024 SME IT Trends Report Reveals AI Optimism Tempered by Security Concerns AI,
                        Security Posture, and Layoff Worries Dominate IT Teams in 2024

   •     Biometrics adoption up, though password-based systems are stubborn: While 83% of organizations use
         password-based authentication for some IT resources, 83% also require multi-factor authentication (MFA)
         and two-thirds require biometrics (66%)—even though 67% of IT professionals agree that adding additional
         security measures means a more cumbersome experience. The average employee has three to five
         passwords to log into their IT resources, though 15% of employees average 10 passwords or more.
   •     The biggest security threats remain the same: The three biggest security concerns now are the same ones
         from April 2023. IT admins reported network attacks were their biggest challenge (40%), followed by
         software vulnerability exploits (34%) and ransomware (29%).

MSPs Play Major Role in IT OperationsMSPs are increasingly crucial to SME IT operations as increasing numbers
of SMEs are turning to them for IT management.

Topline MSP findings include:
   •     MSPs taking over IT for SMEs: While 76% of SMEs rely on an MSP for some features, 42% of
         organizations use an MSP to completely manage their IT environment, a 56% increase from April 2023.
   •     Organizations relying on MSPs for variety of functions: System security is the most common area for why
         SMEs use MSPs (57%) followed by cloud storage (52%), system monitoring (51%), system management
         (47%), managed backup (40%), hardware procurement (34%), business continuity/disaster recovery
         (32%), help desk (35%), and change management (27%).
   •     MSPs are seen to offer a broad range of benefits: The top reasons SMEs report using an MSP are that
         they are up to date on the latest technologies (65%), they can provide a better user experience (60%), and
         they are cost-effective (57%).

Survey Methodology: JumpCloud surveyed 1,213 SME IT decision-makers in the U.K., U.S., and India, including
managers, directors, vice presidents, and executives. Each survey respondent represented an organization with
2,500 or fewer employees across a variety of industries. The online survey was conducted by Propeller Insights,
from November 14, 2023 to November 27, 2023. The findings from the JumpCloud Q1 2024 SME IT Trends Report
can be found in “State of IT 2024: The Rise of AI, Economic Uncertainty, and Evolving Security Threats,” here.

Additional Resources for IT Admins:
   •     Learn the different ways you can modernize AD and seamlessly support non-Microsoft resources and
         hybrid work in the Modernizing Active Directory: Third Party Research Report from EMA.
   •     Check out The MSP’s Guide to IT Centralization, an MSP’s guide on how to reduce IT costs and
         complexity without sacrificing sales.
   •     Download The IT Professional’s Complete Guide to Calculating TCO, a step-by-step guide to measuring—
         and understanding—your IT costs.
   •     Read JumpCloud blog, where admins can review technical articles, follow step-by-step how-to guides,
         evaluate feature and product comparisons, and learn essential tips and tricks for IT admins.
   •     Enroll in JumpCloud University, where admins can enroll in free courses for all skill levels and earn official
         JumpCloud certification.
   •     Attend The IT Hour, a weekly community program open to anyone, which focuses on everything in the life
         of the IT admin.

About JumpCloudJumpCloud® helps IT teams and managed service providers (MSPs) Make Work Happen® by
centralizing management of user identities and devices, enabling small and medium-sized enterprises to adopt Zero
Trust security models. JumpCloud has been used by more than 200,000 organizations, including GoFundMe, Grab,
ClassPass, Beyond Finance, and Foursquare. JumpCloud has raised over $400M from world-class investors
including Sapphire Ventures, General Atlantic, Sands Capital, Atlassian, and CrowdStrike.

                                                                                            Page 4 of 4
     JumpCloud 's Q1 2024 SME IT Trends Report Reveals AI Optimism Tempered by Security Concerns AI,
                      Security Posture, and Layoff Worries Dominate IT Teams in 2024

Learn more: https://www.jumpcloud.com/Follow us: Blog | Community | Twitter | LinkedIn | YouTube | Resources

Click here to get started with JumpCloud
Contact For JumpCloud Josie Judy press@jumpcloud.com



Load-Date: February 14, 2024


  
