

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 4
                     Page Center announces grants targeting ethics education, practice and theory




    Page Center announces grants targeting ethics education, practice and
                                  theory
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                             April 16, 2024 Tuesday 7:47 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1350 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: UNIVERSITY PARK, Pennsylvania

Body


Pennsylvania State University issued the following news:

The Arthur W. Page Center for Integrity in Public Communication announced the recipients of its 2024
Page/Johnson Legacy Scholar Grants. The 17 research projects will answer questions and offer insights in ethics
education, practice and theory.

The Page/Johnson Legacy Scholar Grant program is a primary function of the Page Center, a research center
housed in the Donald P. Bellisario College of Communications at Penn State. Each year, senior research fellows
and center leaders identify important, timely topics and solicit research proposals that contribute to the scholarly,
industry, and public understanding of those topics.

In August, the Page Center announced three calls for research proposals. The topics were:

Ethics training in public relations, journalism, advertising and strategic communication

Scholar/Practitioner collaborations

Expanding theory for integrity in public communication

Out of many submissions, 17 projects featuring 39 scholars from 25 universities and six organizations were chosen
to receive funding. The full list of funded projects is below.

The ethics training call is being led by Marlene Neill, associate professor at Baylor University and Page Center
senior research fellow. Through the six selected projects, she said she hopes to provide guidance on developing
ethics education in the professional ranks.

                                                                                                            Page 2 of 4
                   Page Center announces grants targeting ethics education, practice and theory

Topics from this call include artificial intelligence (AI) strategies in advertising; diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI)
in public relations workspaces; ethics policy; and transparency in journalism.

Holly Overton, Page Center research director and associate professor of advertising/public relations, is overseeing
the scholar/practitioner collaboration call. She said she hopes the partnerships will empower professionals with
research-driven insights.

Areas this call targets include diversity in public relations; influencer communications; listening competencies; and
the use of artificial intelligence in crisis communication.

The call on expanding theory for integrity in public communication is being led by Colleen Connolly-Ahern,
associate professor of advertising/public relations and Page Center senior research fellow. These six projects will
evaluate foundational theories in public communications to see if they meet the needs of today's communicators.

Areas to be studied are equity and accessibility; disinformation campaigns; mental health in communication; and
relationship management.

"It's a testament to the vision of our senior research fellows and the innovation of our scholars that we can fund
such an impressive collection of research," said Denise Bortree, Page Center director and associate dean of
academic affairs at the Bellisario College. "It's also evidence that the Page Center has become a go-to resource for
scholars in these disciplines, and it continues to be a leader in researching ethics and responsibility in public
communication."

Over the next year, scholars will complete their projects. Completed manuscripts from the ethics training call will be
considered for a possible special issue devoted to the topic in the Journal of Media Ethics. In a collaboration with
the Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly, all funded researchers from the theory call will contribute an
essay to a JMCQ invited forum.

This summer, the Page Center blog will feature weekly posts previewing each of these projects The posts will
introduce the scholars, overview the research topic and share ideas as the teams begin their Page Center-funded
research. Some projects will be featured at the Page Center's Research Roundtable, a virtual gathering with
scholars, research fellows and Page Center advisory board members.

Since its founding in 2004, the center has funded nearly 300 scholars and awarded more than $1 million in funding.
While research themes vary from year to year, the center consistently supports academic exploration into the
understanding of principles practiced in public communication.

Visit the 2024 call for research proposals page for more information on each call.

Ethics Training in Public Relations, Journalism, Advertising and Strategic Communication

Transparency effects: Audience perceptions of journalists' ethics training disclosure -- Alyssa Appelman, University
of Kansas, and Kirstie Hettinga, California Lutheran University

A caring compass: Developing ethical guidelines for navigating (mis/dis)information -- Courtney Boman, Laura
Lemon, and LaTonya Taylor, University of Alabama

Beyond compliance: Disability ethics training for an inclusive PR workplace -- Edward Timke and Chuqing Dong,
Michigan State University

Examining the role of PR in communicating ethics training and DEI within organization -- Rosalynn Vasquez, Baylor
University

Develop counterfactual thinking to enhance core ethics competencies: Effects of game-based solutions in
organizational ethics training -- Lewen Wei, University of New South Wales, and Nahyun Kim, Drexel University

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 4
                   Page Center announces grants targeting ethics education, practice and theory

Navigating ethical frontiers in AI-driven advertising: A comprehensive study on guidelines, policies and practical
implementation strategies -- Rachel Esther Lim, Sujin Kim, and Skye Cooley, Oklahoma State University

Scholar/Practitioner Collaborations

Disinformation in the influencer age establishing best practices for influencer relations -- Staci Smith, Utah Valley
University; Brian Smith, Brigham Young University; Karen Freberg, University of Louisville. Partner: Marco Nicolini,
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence

Ethical integration in AI for crisis communication: An international project in the U.S. and European countries --
Yang Cheng, North Carolina State University; Yan Jin, University of Georgia; Jaekuk Lee, North Carolina State
University; Wenqing Zhao and Nicole Cortes, University of Georgia. Partner: Philippe Borremans, International
Association of Risk & Crisis Communication;

Drivers and barriers of artificial intelligence technology adoption in public relations: Exploration of practitioners
and client perceptions of ethical use of AI -- Joon Kim and Ammina Kothari, University of Rhode Island. Partner:
Bret Werner, MikeWorldWide

The roles of mindfulness and emotional intelligence in cultivating listening competencies and employee outcomes:
Theoretical framework and practical guidelines -- Fay Chen, University of San Francisco; Katie Place, Quinnipiac
University. Partners: Ann Barlow, Peppercomm; John McCartney, Jmac Public Relations

Using the hidden histories to inspire, motivate, and attract more diverse students to the PR field -- Shelley Spector,
Museum of Public Relations

Expanding theory for integrity in public communication

Seizing the moment: Redirecting public relations theory to position equity and accessibility as central to the public
voice's post-covid mandate -- Dean Mundy and Sandra Boone, University of Oregon

Advancing relationship management theory: Incorporating dialogic stewardship and ethics of care in a polarizing
political environment -- Jordan Morehouse, University of Colorado; Virginia Harrison, Clemson University; Chuqing
Dong, Michigan State University

Networked resilience to online misinformation -- Shuning Lu, North Dakota State University, and Yan Qu, University
of Maryland

A model for disaster mental health communication: Testing a three-pronged approach to support communicators
and affected publics -- J. Suzanne Horsley and Daphne S. Cain, University of Alabama

Applying uses and gratifications theory to the electronic access of court records:Can communication theory guide
the application of artificial intelligence tools to ensure the ethical release of government information? -- Amy
Kristin Sanders, University of Texas at Austin

Combatting disinformation campaigns by harnessing the power of memes -- Hye Jin Yoon, University of Georgia,
and Yan Huang, University of Houston

***

Original text here: https://www.psu.edu/news/bellisario-college-communications/story/page-center-announces-
grants-targeting-ethics-education/

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8576066 MSTRUCK

                                                                                                   Page 4 of 4
                    Page Center announces grants targeting ethics education, practice and theory


Load-Date: April 16, 2024


  
