

                                                                                             Page 1 of 2
   Maximus Awarded OPM Contract for New Postal Service Health Benefits Program Maximus is Contact Center
                       Services Provider for new program launching in November




    Maximus Awarded OPM Contract for New Postal Service Health Benefits
    Program; Maximus is Contact Center Services Provider for new program
                          launching in November
                                                   Business Wire
                                      August 27, 2024 Tuesday 3:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 539 words
Dateline: TYSONS, Va.

Body


Maximus (NYSE: MMS), a leading employer and provider of government services worldwide, today announced it
has been awarded a $20 million contract from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to serve as the Contact
Center Services Provider for the agency's new Postal Service Health Benefits Program . This program will provide
health insurance to eligible Postal Service employees, annuitants, and their eligible family members starting in
2025.

Maximus will be leading the customer support effort to answer calls and emails for OPM's new, enhanced customer
service platform dedicated to assisting eligible individuals access health insurance benefits. Maximus will leverage
offerings from its Total Experience Management (TXM) solution, including state-of-the-art telephony, customer
relationship management, and call quality reporting tools to provide best-in-class customer service.

"The Postal Service Health Benefits Program is an invaluable benefit for the U.S. Postal Service workforce, and
Maximus is uniquely positioned to develop this new contact center and Customer Experience (CX) approach based
on more than 30 years of experience working with OPM," said Larry Reagan, Senior Managing Director, Federal
Civilian Market, Maximus. "Our senior team has vast experience standing up new customer service programs at
scale for federal agencies to deliver a range of services, including disaster recovery, education, and health benefit
services."

The Postal Service Health Benefits Program is a new, separate program within the Federal Employees Health
Benefits (FEHB) Program, administered by OPM and will replace FEHB coverage for eligible groups. The
implementation and modernization of public-facing programs have long been a specialty for Maximus, including
work with the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) and the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ).

Maximus recently launched TXM as a cloud-based modular, flexible, and scalable technology for federal agency
leaders based on its extensive experience with mission-critical programs at scale. The full solution integrates
platforms for communications, customer and employee-centric strategies, and a host of microservices, such as AI-
enabled web services, chatbots, and the Maximus Intelligent Virtual Assistant (IVA).

                                                                                            Page 2 of 2
  Maximus Awarded OPM Contract for New Postal Service Health Benefits Program Maximus is Contact Center
                      Services Provider for new program launching in November

To learn more about Maximus and its capabilities for improving CX for federal agencies, visit maximus.com/txm-
solution .

About Maximus

As a leading strategic partner to governments across the globe, Maximus helps improve the delivery of public
services amid complex technology, health, economic, environmental, and social challenges. With a deep
understanding of program service delivery, acute insights that achieve operational excellence, and an extensive
awareness of the needs of the people being served, our employees advance the critical missions of our partners.
Maximus delivers innovative business process management, impactful consulting services, and technology
solutions that provide improved outcomes for the public and higher levels of productivity and efficiency of
government-sponsored programs. For more information, visit maximus.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240827600267/en/


CONTACT: Investor Relations
James Francis
Jessica Batt

IR@maximus.com Media & Public Relations
Eileen Cassidy Rivera

media@maximus.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: August 27, 2024


  
