

                                                                                             Page 1 of 3
      ZERO13 and XTCC announce $100bn climate finance investment drive at Davos World Economic Forum
                    Landmark Statement of Accord includes influential global investor....




   ZERO13 and XTCC announce $100bn climate finance investment drive at
    Davos World Economic Forum; Landmark Statement of Accord includes
  influential global investors. ZERO13 digital platform infrastructure to drive
  African and global economic development, focusing on renewable energy
      and regenerative agriculture with full digital provenance. XTCC has
   pioneered the issue of the first in a series of exchange-listed products for
                          high-integrity carbon credits.
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                            January 15, 2024 Monday 11:00 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: FINANCING AGREEMENTS
Length: 1153 words

Body

Davos, Jan. 16, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- ZERO13, the COP28 award-winning GMEX Group initiative
providing a digital climate fintech platform-as-a-service, and XTCC, the world’s first exchange-traded investment
products for high-integrity carbon credits sourced from verified, renewable energy and regenerative agriculture
projects, announce a Statement of Accord targeting $100bn capital market investment into high-integrity carbon
credits to help address the multi-trillion dollar annual climate financing gap.



“In order to avert a catastrophic climate disaster, global clean energy investments of approximately $4-5 trillion are
required annually by 2030 – a more than threefold increase from existing investment levels” according to the World
Economic Forum (WEF). The details of how the Accord by XTCC and ZERO13 addresses the current problems in
carbon markets, its call to action, and the methodology to achieve its goals will be presented at the WEF Futur.IO
Davos Executive Reception on 17 January, at 09:00 CET.

                                                                                            Page 2 of 3
     ZERO13 and XTCC announce $100bn climate finance investment drive at Davos World Economic Forum
                   Landmark Statement of Accord includes influential global investor....

Signatories of the Accord commit to improving the integrity and credibility of carbon credits and working towards an
economic model that will restore trust in the carbon credit market and drive liquidity. ZERO13 and XTCC call upon
stakeholders from across the climate value chain to take collective action and invest further in digitally verifiable,
high-integrity carbon credits. This investment will drive community development and economic progress in the
Global South and emerging nations, and empower others to initiate and drive change within the carbon credit
industry.



In collaboration with multiple climate ecosystem partners, the Accord serves as a financial and digital gateway to
project funders and investors looking for returns. By driving liquidity through capital markets that will provide more
opportunities to fund projects, ZERO13 and XTCC will be able to mobilise local capital and international pools of
funds. Currently, ZERO13 and XTCC are engaged in multiple countries, with over $1bn in current bankable projects
in India, Brazil, Kenya, Rwanda, Seychelles and South Africa.



As an example, Kenya is already a leader in the generation of carbon credits in Africa, accounting for over 20% of
the continent’s volume over the past five years. At COP28, the ‘Africa Green Industrialisation Initiative’ was held,
focused on accelerating Africa’s green industrialisation, co-hosted by Kenya and the UAE and attended by African
Heads of State and leading figures from green developers, industry, multilateral development banks, and key
institutions globally.



The combination of ZERO13’s digital carbon climate market infrastructure ecosystem and XTCC’s exchange-listed
investment products instils trust and creates a platform to capture the expected growth in the demand for high-
integrity carbon credits. Moreover, ZERO13 and XTCC enable capital markets distribution of high-integrity
regenerative agriculture and renewable energy projects that produce carbon credits with complete digitally verified
provenance. This collaboration is set to be a leader in the climate markets, augmenting private climate financing
with large-scale capital from public markets.



Hirander Misra, Chairman and CEO of GMEX Group and ZERO13 said, “We are excited that our ZERO13
‘networks of networks’ platform has built upon its award win at COP28 to enable this collective action at Davos
during the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting by fostering connectivity and collaboration across global climate
markets.”



He added, “Through our partnerships with XTCC, multiple exchanges, participants, custodians, and registries we
increase interoperability, digitally interconnect silos, and bridge the gap between climate tech and fintech. This
enables us to scale climate finance across multiple APIs and blockchains and build capacity where it is needed
most, benefitting countries, corporations and communities.”



Professor Lisa Wilson, MD of XTCC said, “The partnership between XTCC and ZERO13 isn’t merely infrastructure
and talking about a call for investment. We recognise that after COP28 much more than talk is required. The Accord
is a critical pledge with full commitment by all stakeholders to a sustainable net zero future. Investing in high-
integrity carbon credits will spur new carbon reduction initiatives, playing a crucial role in meeting net zero targets.
Together we have set the foundations with a full end-to-end trusted ecosystem for high-integrity carbon credits,
removing obstructions so that investment can flow freely with full investor confidence.”

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
        ZERO13 and XTCC announce $100bn climate finance investment drive at Davos World Economic Forum
                      Landmark Statement of Accord includes influential global investor....



- ENDS –

Media Contacts

GMEX Group and ZERO13Alice Ellman-Brown, The Realization GroupTel: +44 (0)7365 224804alice.ellman-
brown@therealizationgroup.com / pr@gmex-group.com

XTCCMark PinnesUpside PRTel: +44 7595068054Email: mark.pinnes@upside-pr.com

About ZERO13ZERO13, an award winning GMEX Group (‘GMEX’) initiative, is a market leading automated AI and
blockchain-driven international carbon exchange, registry, and aggregation hub ecosystem. Accessed as a
‘Platform as a Service’ (PaaS), the ZERO13 Hub offers a distributed point of entry for digital issuance, trading, and
settlement of carbon credits and real-world assets such as ESG securities with an approach based on
interoperability of multiple blockchains and APIs.

ZERO13 Hub connects multiple international carbon exchanges, registries, custodians, and ESG project owners for
supply verification, transparent pricing, and real-time settlement. Connections are via APIs and blockchains enabled
by ZERO13 Chain (Pyctor).

GMEX’s Pyctor technology has been harnessed to extend ZERO13 Hub’s Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) capabilities
and to power ZERO13 Chain as a multi-blockchain and multi-API interoperable ‘network of networks’. This is an
effective and robust mechanism for settling various assets, optimising Delivery versus Payment (DvP) contracts
through native integration for token deposits.

ZERO13 industry recognition awards include:
    •      COP28 UAE award win in the category of “Innovative blockchain solutions in sustainable finance to scale
           up climate action” - 2023

For further information on ZERO13, please visit https://www.zero13.net/.

About XTCCXTCC is an investment product for professional investors. XTCC includes investment products that
offer a transparent, credible and sustainable avenue for investors to participate in the rapidly expanding high-
integrity carbon credit market, closing the gap in the circularity ecosystem that leads to further growth and the
development of new renewable energy projects. The XTCC universe includes multi-currency variants for Solar, Blue
Carbon, Biomass, Biogas, Hydro, Wind and Biomethanation.

For more information, visit: http://xtcc.investments or contact ir@xtcc.investments
Alice    Ellman-Brown,     The   Realization    Group           Tel:    +44     (0)7365    224804     alice.ellman-
brown@therealizationgroup.com / pr@gmex-group.com



Load-Date: January 16, 2024


  
