

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 7
     Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security Hearing "A Review of the President's FY2025
                        Budget Request for the Department of Homeland Security." Tes....




   Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security Hearing; "A
   Review of the President's FY2025 Budget Request for the Department of
   Homeland Security."; Testimony by Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary, U.S.
                      Department of Homeland Security
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                             April 10, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. SENATE DOCUMENTS
Length: 3981 words

Body


Introduction

Chair Murphy, Ranking Member Britt, and distinguished Members of the Subcommittee:

I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you to discuss the Department of Homeland Security's Fiscal Year
(FY) 2025 President's Budget.

Since its inception, the Department has continuously evolved to achieve its mission. It has done so in an
increasingly dynamic threat landscape through new programs and capabilities, cross-component collaboration, and
unflinching dedication. Today, we are the third largest department in the Federal Government with a 268,000-
member workforce. Every day, our personnel interact with the U.S. public more than any other Federal agency as
we ensure the safety and security of all Americans, promote lawful trade and travel, protect our critical
infrastructure, develop resilience to man-made and natural disasters, respond when disaster strikes, advance the
security of cyberspace and modernize information technology, combat human trafficking and online child sexual
exploitation, protect communities from illicit drugs and weapons, safeguard our borders, defend U.S. interests in the
Arctic and the Indo-Pacific, guard our federal buildings, and much more.

The FY 2025 President's Budget for the Department totals $107.9 billion, providing the resources needed to keep
our nation safe, strong, and prosperous. This funding supports the Department's ever-evolving mission set and
aligns with key Presidential priorities. The Budget continues investments to advance our mission to combat
terrorism, to secure our borders and enforce immigration law, to counter threats of fentanyl and other illicit drugs, to
promote a humane and efficient system of refugee processing, and to address personnel needs. The Budget
supports Indo-Pacific engagement and readiness operations. It supports investing in and building a resilient nation,
laying a foundation for the responsible use of Artificial Intelligence (AI), and bolstering cyber defenses and
national resilience. This testimony highlights FY 2025 investments which ensure the Department has the resources
it needs to enforce our laws and keep the American people, our homeland, and our values secure.

                                                                                                Page 2 of 7
    Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security Hearing "A Review of the President's FY2025
                       Budget Request for the Department of Homeland Security." Tes....

Of the $107.9 billion requested in FY 2025, $62.2 billion is discretionary budget authority, and $22.7 billion is for the
Disaster Relief Fund to enable response and recovery efforts during major disasters and emergencies and to build
resilience to natural hazards. A TSA legislative proposal related to fees, if enacted, would decrease net
discretionary appropriations by $1.6 billion by directing more offsetting collections directly to TSA. The Budget also
includes a proposed $4.7 billion Southwest Border Contingency Fund to respond to changing conditions on the
Southwest Border.

The Budget includes, and reiterates the need for, the Administration's border and disaster supplemental requests
transmitted to Congress in October, which total $17.9 billion for DHS. Additionally, DHS urges Congress to pass the
Senate's bipartisan border security supplemental in order to provide vital funding and authorities in the
Department's efforts to secure the Southwest Border, build capacity to enforcement immigration law, and counter
trafficking in fentanyl.

I am eager to work with Congress to deliver for the American people and the men and women who protect our
Homeland.

Advance Our Mission to Combat Terrorism

The President's Budget supports the Department's continued efforts to combat terrorism, both domestically and
abroad. The FY 2025 Budget fully funds the DHS Special Events Program, a critical program that gathers
information on more than 57,000 special events, to identify and assess terrorism risk to high profile events across
the Nation and facilitates the risk rating of special events using the Special Events Assessment Rating (SEAR)
methodology.

The President's Budget provides $418.0 million to support the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office
(CWMD), increasing our security against chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) terrorist threats.
Funding of $181.4 million provided to CWMD in the President's Budget are dedicated to support state, local, tribal,
and territorial (SLTT) partners by building personnel and technical capabilities and increasing knowledge regarding
CBRN threats and incidents.

Continuing to invest in innovative solutions is vital in countering weapons of mass destruction and to the
Department's frontline personnel who rely on such technologies, including United States Coast Guard (USCG)
Special Mission Units. The President's Budget provides $138.3 million to ensure CWMD possesses the resources
needed for research, acquisition, development, test, and evaluation of next generation technology to bolster
environmental biodetection and chemical defense programs.

The Budget includes an $80 million increase for the Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP), which provides
target hardening and other physical security enhancements for nonprofit organizations at high risk of terrorist attack,
including places of worship. The NSGP is designed to integrate nonprofit preparedness activities with broader state
and local preparedness efforts. It is also designed to promote coordination and collaboration in emergency
preparedness activities among public and private community representatives, as well as state and local government
agencies. Additionally, the budget includes $18 million for the Targeted Violence and Terrorism Prevention Grants
to support activities to prevent the recruitment or radicalization of individuals to violence by interrupting those
efforts, building community-level resilience, and identifying the early signs of radicalization to violence and providing
appropriate interventions through civic and public health organizations, law enforcement, or other entities.

Securing the Border and Facilitating Lawful Trade and Immigration

Countries throughout the Western Hemisphere and across the world continue to face unprecedented levels of
migration inflamed by violence, food insecurity, corruption, dire economic conditions, and the lingering effects of the
COVID-19 pandemic. Failing authoritarian regimes in Venezuela, Cuba, and Nicaragua, and an ongoing
humanitarian and security crisis in Haiti and Ecuador, have driven millions from their homes. Several countries'
uncooperative governments severely restrict our ability to return their nationals. Migrants from the Middle East,
Central Asia, Africa, and Asia are using pathways through Central and South America to reach the United States.

                                                                                                Page 3 of 7
    Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security Hearing "A Review of the President's FY2025
                       Budget Request for the Department of Homeland Security." Tes....

Migratory movements are often leveraged by human smuggling organizations that exploit migrants for profit as part
of a billion-dollar criminal enterprise.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) work together to
secure America's borders and enforce our nation's immigration laws. CBP is responsible for securing our nation's
borders to protect against terrorist threats, combat and deter transnational crime, and facilitate lawful travel, trade,
and immigration. ICE protects our nation through criminal investigations and enforcing immigration laws to preserve
national security and public safety and stands at the forefront of our nation's efforts to strengthen border security,
counter fentanyl, and prevent the illegal movement of people and goods. The FY 2025 Budget includes $25.9 billion
for CBP and ICE to continue these vital functions and significant investment in personnel and technology to carry
out these critical mission sets.

The requested CBP funding includes an increase of $210.3 million that would support the hiring of an additional 350
Border Patrol Agents, an additional 310 Border Patrol Processing Coordinators, 150 CBP Officers, and 411
Operational and Mission Support Personnel. Additional field agents and support staff will bolster situational
awareness, respond to enhanced levels of migration, and advance the enforcement mission. It supplements CBP's
efforts to reduce reliance on the Department of Defense by including $39.8 million to sustain Integrated Surveillance
Towers along the Southwest Border. The Budget also provides $26.2 million for research and development efforts
in critical operational capabilities such as Counter-Unmanned Aircraft.

Requested ICE funding includes $2 billion for 34,000 ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) immigration
detention beds. The Southwest Border Contingency Fund will resource additional detention beds if conditions
require increased capacity.

The request of $2.5 billion for ICE Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) would fund additional personnel and
technology enhancements for investigative capacities, including a $21 million increase for child exploitation
investigations, a vital national asset in the global fight against transnational criminal threats. These investigations
helped inform a forthcoming national public awareness campaign. Children, teens, parents, trusted adults, and
policymakers will be educated and empowered to prevent and combat online child sexual exploitation and abuse;
learn how to report online enticement and victimization; and obtain response and support resources for victims and
survivors of online child sexual exploitation. We look forward to launching this campaign with our partners this
month.

Working within a broken immigration system and in the face of enormous challenges and consistently insufficient
funding, DHS faithfully enforces the law to secure our borders. We are removing and returning record numbers of
migrants who are unable to establish a legal basis to remain in the United States. Since mid-May 2023, we
removed or returned more than 630,000 individuals, the vast majority of whom crossed the Southwest Border,
including nearly 100,000 individuals in family units. Total removals and returns in the last 11 months exceed
removals and returns in every full fiscal year since 2013.

Countering Fentanyl

Fentanyl is one of the deadliest drugs our country has ever faced. It is 50 times stronger than heroin and
remarkably cheap and easy to produce. The profit potential and potency of small doses of fentanyl complicate
efforts for law enforcement personnel cracking down on smuggling operations. CBP and ICE are working together
with federal, state, and local partners to successfully combat transnational criminal organizations and counter their
trafficking in fentanyl and other controlled substances. The Department has stopped more illicit fentanyl and
arrested more individuals for fentanyl-related crimes in the last two fiscal years than in the previous five years
combined.

The Department's FY 2025 Budget includes critical investments in the fight against fentanyl. Through investments
in Non-Intrusive Inspection technology and targeted operations such as Operations Artemis, Rolling Wave, and
Argus, CBP and ICE HSI increased the interdiction of fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, and collateral contraband, in

                                                                                                Page 4 of 7
    Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security Hearing "A Review of the President's FY2025
                       Budget Request for the Department of Homeland Security." Tes....

particular the pill presses used to manufacture fentanyl. The Administration is also prepared to send to Congress a
legislative proposal to cement the Unity Agenda Strategy to combat the fentanyl epidemic.

Supporting Refugee Processing and a Fair, Orderly, and Humane Immigration System

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to safeguarding the integrity of our nation's immigration system by
efficiently and fairly adjudicating requests for immigration benefits. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
(USCIS) provides safe, lawful pathways for migration. The FY 2025 Budget includes $265 million for USCIS to
bolster refugee processing in support of the Administration's goal to welcome up to 125,000 refugees from across
the world, including up to 50,000 from the Western Hemisphere; expand the E-Verify Program; and support the
Citizenship and Integration Grant Program.

Investing in Cybersecurity and Emergency Communications

The Department's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) serves as both America's cyber defense
agency and as the national coordinator for critical infrastructure security and resilience.

President Biden signed the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022 (CIRCIA) into law in
March 2022. To meet CIRCIA's requirements, CISA must add new staff, update existing programs, and implement
new processes and technologies. The FY 2025 Budget includes critical resources to facilitate CISA's ability to
receive, analyze, and share reports required under CIRCIA once regulatory reporting requirements become
effective. The Budget includes $115.9 million to help ensure CISA has sufficient funds for staffing, operations, and
technology to successfully implement CIRCIA.

The FY 2025 Budget also includes $394.1 million to support the Joint Collaborative Environment, which enables
CISA to fulfill its mission of centralizing and synthesizing cyber threat and vulnerability data across federal, SLTT,
and private sector stakeholders, and rapidly work with these stakeholders to reduce associated risk.

Additionally, the Budget includes $469.8 million for Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation to complete mobile asset
deployments, continue cloud asset deployments to fill capability gaps, and align to agency zero-trust use cases.
Funding also sustains existing Endpoint Detection and Response investments and incorporates sensors to increase
operational visibility within the Network Security Management capability.

The Federal Government continues to leverage TSA's unique authorities - including the ability to issue Security
Directives and Emergency Amendments within hours of receiving information about a threat - to address cyber
threats. Cyber threats grew dramatically over the past decade and that growth shows no sign of slowing down.
Accordingly, the FY 2025 Budget includes an increase of $15 million to conduct critical mission support functions to
reduce cyber threats to American critical infrastructure in both near and mid-terms, and in support of both the
surface and aviation sectors.

Responsibly Deploying Artificial Intelligence Technology

At the Department of Homeland Security, we embrace the responsibility to ensure that AI is developed and adopted
in a way that realizes its full potential while protecting the public from any harm its irresponsible or adversarial use
might cause. The FY 2025 Budget enables the Department to responsibly leverage AI and machine learning to
advance our homeland security missions while protecting individuals' privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties. Funding
incudes $5.0 million for a new AI Office, led by the Chief AI Officer, within the Office of the Chief Information Officer.
The AI Office will be responsible for setting priorities, directing policies, and oversight of the responsible use of AI
across DHS.

DHS will continue to deploy AI tools across strategic areas of the homeland security enterprise, including efforts to
counter fentanyl, combat child sexual exploitation and abuses, deliver immigration services, secure travel, fortify our
critical infrastructure, and enhance our cybersecurity. Consistent with President Biden's Executive Order, DHS will
also direct funds to manage AI in critical infrastructure and cyberspace, promote the adoption of global AI safety

                                                                                                Page 5 of 7
    Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security Hearing "A Review of the President's FY2025
                       Budget Request for the Department of Homeland Security." Tes....

standards, reduce the risk that AI can be used to create weapons of mass destruction and other related threats,
combat AI-related intellectual property theft, and help the United States attract and retain skilled talent.

The FY 2025 Budget provides additional AI funds for talent recruitment programs that will benefit DHS missions,
including the DHS AI Corps that launched in February to hire 50 AI experts in the Department. The effort has
already received over 3,000 applications. Funds will also support training programs to build AI literacy across the
Department's workforce and secure AI systems in critical infrastructure. The funds will also support existing ICE,
CBP, and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) programs ensuring investment and expansion in line
with Executive Order 14110, Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence.

In March 2024, we introduced the DHS AI Roadmap, which outlines the Department's AI initiatives and the
technology's potential across the homeland security enterprise. It is the most detailed AI plan put forward by a
federal agency to date, directing our efforts to fully realize AI's potential to protect the American people and our
homeland, while steadfastly protecting privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties.

Our roadmap for the coming year includes exploring new AI applications and pursuing a whole-of-government
strategy for ensuring the safe, secure, and trustworthy development and use of AI. We are seeking to engage
partners across government, the private sector, and academia to bolster our nation's security.

Investing in a Disaster-Resilient Nation

FEMA strengthens the nation's ability to prepare for and respond to disasters of all types and magnitudes via
partnerships with SLTT governments and the delivery of assistance to disaster survivors. In January, DHS
announced historic changes to FEMA's Individual Assistance Program that ensure survivors will be provided with
faster and easier access to resources they need immediately after a disaster. Last month, these changes went into
effect and they will transform how we interact with survivors and empower individuals and communities in all future
disasters.

The Budget includes increased funding for programs and activities that support FEMA's goals to lead whole-of-
community efforts in resilience and promote and sustain a prepared nation. The FY 2025 Budget provides a major
disaster allocation totaling $22.7 billion for FEMA to assist SLTT partners and individuals affected by major
disasters and emergencies. This funding will support FEMA's continued recovery efforts from the devastating Maui
fire, Hurricanes Maria, Fiona, and Ian, and other major disaster activity. In Maui our teams are on the ground
delivering assistance in Lahaina and across Maui. As the roads are cleared and debris removed, as a temporary
elementary school has opened, and as survivors begin to rebuild their homes, FEMA will continue to be there on
the long road to recovery. The funding Congress provides directly impacts our ability to ensure survivors have the
assistance they need to return to Lahaina and their community. The Budget provides approximately $3.2 billion in
FEMA grants bolstering SLTT community partnerships to improve the nation's disaster resilience and
preparedness strategies and includes the previously mentioned $385 million for the NSGP.

Increasing Coast Guard Presence in the Indo-Pacific Region

The U.S. Coast Guard is a vital part of the Administration's national security vision. Increasing USCG's presence in
the Indo-Pacific region is critical to that vision, the investments detailed below will enable a stable, free, and open
region, and solidify the United States as a trusted partner in the region.

The FY 2025 Budget provides $12.3 billion in net discretionary funding to sustain current readiness, resilience, and
capabilities while building the Coast Guard of the future. The Budget expands efforts for the Coast Guard's two
highest acquisition priorities, the Offshore Patrol Cutter (OPC) and Fast Response Cutter (FRC). The OPC replaces
the Coast Guard's fleet of Medium Endurance Cutters that conduct missions on the high seas and coastal
approaches while FRC funding expands the program of record and construction of two FRCs in support of the
nation's Indo-Pacific Strategy. Of the $263 million provided to USCG, $200 million will increase the FRC fleet from
65 to 67 boats, which are well-equipped to engage with partner nations throughout the region.

                                                                                                Page 6 of 7
    Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security Hearing "A Review of the President's FY2025
                       Budget Request for the Department of Homeland Security." Tes....

The Budget also provides funding to support training, partnerships, and meaningful engagement in the Indo-Pacific
region. For example, it includes funds for an Indo-Pacific based Coast Guard Marine Transportation System (MTS)
Assessment Team that will drive regional economic prosperity by performing vital Ports and Waterways Safety
Assessments, Port Access Route Studies, and Waterways Analysis and Management System studies. Additionally,
the budget also funds a, a Maritime Engagement Team focused on bolstering partner-nation capacity, and regional
maritime advisors, liaison officers, attaches, legal support, and foreign engagement personnel that will support the
U.S. presence and our interests in the region.

The 2024 Presidential Campaign and National Special Security Events

The U.S. Secret Service (USSS) protects the President, the Vice President, their immediate families, visiting heads
of state, other designated individuals, and the White House Complex, the Vice President's residence, foreign
diplomatic missions, and other designated buildings. Additionally, the USSS coordinates security at National
Special Security Events, such as the State of the Union Address, the United Nations General Assembly, and
international summits hosted in the United States, such as the upcoming NATO Summit. The Service also protects
the nation's financial infrastructure by investigating counterfeiting, identity theft, computer fraud, and other financial
security crimes.

This year, the USSS will increase protective details, travel and overtime related to the Presidential Campaign. The
FY 2025 Budget includes $70 million to ensure the 2024 Presidential Campaign is adequately resourced for the
protection of major candidates, designated nominees, their spouses, and nominating conventions. This funding
supports enhanced protection, security, travel, and overtime for the 2024 Presidential Campaign and includes
resources to train USSS personnel and other federal partner agencies.

The President's Budget also includes $16.0 million to support planning and prepositioning of assets needed for the
protection of the 2026 FIFA World Cup and $19 million for other NSSEs.

Modernizing TSA Pay and Workforce Policies

Every day, TSA personnel help millions of travelers reach their destinations safely, fulfilling one of our Department's
core missions since our founding in the wake of the September 11 attacks. The TSA workforce deserves to be fairly
compensated at rates comparable with their peers on the General Schedule pay scale. The FY 2025 Budget
includes an additional $1.5 billion to continue the FY 2023 initiative to increase TSA pay levels, making TSA pay
comparable to federal government employees in similar positions and enhancing recruitment and retention efforts.

The Budget resources TSA passenger volume growth expectations in FY 2025 to follow the historical growth rate of
4.5 percent averaged over the 2014-2019 period, which equates to an average 3.1 million daily passengers in 2025.
Increased volume equates to greater risks to passenger safety. To mitigate this risk, the President's Budget
includes $174 million to adequately staff checkpoints to meet the demands of the increased passenger volume
while maintaining minimal wait times for passengers.

Conclusion

The Department was founded to confront a threat environment that has proven to be increasingly dynamic and
diverse. The FY 2025 President's Budget builds on our successes to meet the ever-changing threat landscape we
face and prepares the Department to meet the threats of tomorrow.

It is the privilege of my life to represent and serve alongside the DHS workforce - a workforce that has time and
again demonstrated exceptional skill and steadfast commitment to keeping the Homeland safe and secure.

I am grateful to this Committee for your continued support and the opportunity to appear before you today. I look
forward to working together and to answering your questions.

                                                                                                Page 7 of 7
    Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security Hearing "A Review of the President's FY2025
                       Budget Request for the Department of Homeland Security." Tes....

Read     this original document       at:   https://www.appropriations.senate.gov/download/240410-mayorkas-
testimonyanddownload=1


Load-Date: April 11, 2024


  
