

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 4
                         Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on USAF




      Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on USAF
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           April 3, 2024 Wednesday 8:41 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1589 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Congressional Research Service issued the following In Focus white paper (No. IF12622) on April 1, 2024, by
defense policy analyst Jennifer DiMascio.

Here are excerpts:

***

Defense Primer: The United States Air Force

An executive order signed by then-President Harry S. Truman in 1947 established the U.S. Air Force as a separate
service to be "organized, trained, and equipped primarily for prompt and sustained offensive and defensive air
operations ... necessary for the effective prosecution of war except as otherwise assigned." The National Security
Act of 1947 provides statutory authority for the U.S. Air Force.

The Department of the Air Force (DAF) is a single military department that has two military services, the U.S. Air
Force and the U.S. Space Force. The DAF is led by a single civilian leader, the Secretary of the Air Force. The four-
star military Air Force chief of staff reports to the Air Force Secretary, as does the Space Force's four-star Chief of
Space Operations. The DAF is requesting a $217.5 billion budget for FY2025.

Air Force Core Missions

The Air Force lists its core missions as air superiority, intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance, rapid global
mobility, global strike, and command and control.

Air Superiority

Military experts define air superiority as establishing and maintaining control of the skies over conflict areas. The Air
Force achieves air superiority by destroying enemy aircraft and infrastructure to restrict an opponent's ability to

                                                                                                           Page 2 of 4
                        Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on USAF

conduct air operations. Air superiority allows air forces to provide direct support for ground forces, helping to identify
and destroy targets and to prevent enemy air and missile threats from interfering with operations.

Air Force officials acknowledge that the proliferation of advanced air defense systems and long-range missiles have
made consistent air superiority more difficult to achieve.

They add that commanders will need to define the scope and duration of required air superiority in the future.

Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)

Through a mix of technologies and platforms, the Air Force collects, exploits, and disseminates information about
adversaries and their capabilities. Air Force leaders contend that emerging technologies, such as cyber and
electronic attacks, will threaten future ISR collection. The service is updating its current mix of platforms and
systems.

Rapid Global Mobility

The Air Force's mobility forces move cargo and personnel for a range of operations and missions around the world.
Air Force aeromedical transport enables the timely evacuation and treatment those who are injured. Mobility forces
support military operations, humanitarian missions, and disaster-response efforts. And the Air Force's aerial
refueling tanker fleet delivers fuel to other aircraft in flight to enable long-range and long-endurance operations
nearly anywhere on the globe.

Global Strike

The Air Force global strike missions are executed by part of the U.S. nuclear deterrent force. The Air Force
develops and maintains two legs of the nuclear triad: bombers and land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Other global strike missions include providing close-air support for ground forces, interdicting enemy forces, and
inserting special operations forces.

Command and Control (C2)

According to the Air Force, command and control systems coordinate joint operations using "centralized command,
distributed control and decentralized execution." To stay ahead of emerging adversary threats, the Air Force
maintains it is integrating its command, control, communications and battle management programs, replacing
outdated systems, and incorporating artificial intelligence technologies.

Organization

Air Force Secretary Frank Kendall is the service's civilian leader; Chief of Staff of the Air Force General David Allvin
reports to him. Allvin is the Air Force's senior uniformed leader. In 2019, the National Defense Authorization Act of
Fiscal Year 2020 (P.L. 116-92) directed the creation of the U.S. Space Force as a sixth branch of the military, also
reporting to the civilian leader of the DAF.

The Air Force has eight function-based major commands and two major commands organized by geographic
region. Function-based commands include Air Combat Command, Air Education and Training Command, Air Force
Materiel Command, Air Force Reserve Command, Air Force Space Command, Air Force Special Operations
Command, and Air Mobility Command. The remaining two geographically oriented commands are Pacific Air
Forces and United States Air Forces in Europe-Air Forces Africa.

Numbered air forces are subordinate to major commands. The numbered air forces are supported by wings, which
are supported by groups. Groups are supported by squadrons.

Personnel

                                                                                                      Page 3 of 4
                      Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on USAF

The DAF's FY2025 requested end strength, the number of authorized personnel for the service on September 30,
2024, is 504,500 military personnel and 183,100 civilians:

* 320,000 in the active Air Force,

* 9,800 in the active Space Force,

* 67,000 in the Air Force Reserve,

* 107,700 in the Air National Guard,

* 177,800 Air Force civilians, and

* 5,300 Space Force civilians.

Basing

The DAF has indicated that it uses a standard process for basing decisions that result from numeric changes in
personnel or weapons systems, as well as movement of units, missions, or weapons systems to DAF property. The
service considers mission and strategic factors, installation capacity, and environmental impacts. The Secretary of
the Air Force makes decisions about weapons systems changes and any action involving more than 200 personnel.
The service briefs Congress after the secretary has approved basing criteria, validated candidates, approved a
preferred location, and issued a final decision.

Air Force Aircraft Inventory

As of September 30, 2022, the Air Force reported an inventory of 5,519 aircraft:

***

Table 1. Air Force Aircraft

Source: Air Force & Space Force Almanac 2023 | Air & Space Forces Magazine (airandspaceforces.com).

Notes: Special Mission Aircraft includes platforms conducting intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, battle
management, and command, control and communications missions. Some are unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs).

***

Great Power Competition

Secretary Kendall has described the strategic environment facing the United States as an "era of Great Power
Competition" with China and Russia. Kendall asserts that the People's Republic of China is "the Air Force's most
formidable competitor since the Soviet Union and perhaps in its history." Over the past 20 years, China has
developed long-range missiles that may threaten U.S. military installations across the Pacific and more
sophisticated air defenses and cyber, nuclear, and space capabilities. The Air Force has seemingly oriented its
future plans for modernization and organization to meet those threats. For example, the Air Force has indicated that
it is integrating network systems, conducting more large-scale military exercises, and continuing modernization
investment plans.

Major Investment Programs

The Air Force is undertaking several research and development efforts to aid integrated deterrence and future
security challenges, including the following:

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 4
                      Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on USAF

* The LGM-35 Sentinel program to design, develop, produce, and deploy a new intercontinental ballistic missile to
replace the Minuteman III. The service's budget documents state it will eventually request the purchase of 634 of
these weapons.

* The Next-Generation Air Dominance (NGAD) fighter program to replace the F-22 Raptor. The Air Force is
proposing to award an engineering and manufacturing development contract as soon as summer 2024.

* The Collaborative Combat Aircraft program to develop uncrewed aircraft to fly alongside NGAD or F35 fighters or
other traditionally piloted aircraft. The service has started an active competition.

* The Advanced Battle Management System, a network intended to link data across domains and allow disparate
platforms to work together.

The Air Force is also continuing several major procurement programs, including the following:

* The B-21 Raider stealth bomber made its first flight on November 10, 2023. Air Force budget documents state that
the bomber will be delivered to operational bases in the mid-2020s. Air Force officials add that the service intends
to purchase at least 100 B-21 bombers.

* The F-35A Lightning II fighter is the Air Force's leading strike fighter. The U.S. Navy and Marine Corps operate
variants of this fighter, and the aircraft has been sold to 17 nations. The Air Force's F-35 program of record calls for
an eventual fleet of 1,763 F-35As.

* The KC-46A tanker would replace aging KC-135 aircraft. The Air Force signed a contract in 2011 with Boeing for
the development and purchase of 179 KC46A tankers. It is increasing the program of record to 183 aircraft.

Issues for Congress

The Air Force has again proposed divesting fighter aircraft to invest in future fighter research. Congress may
consider the appropriate level of investment, if any, for each platform; what the future fighter force mix could
potentially include; and how retirements could affect individual bases. In addition, Secretary Kendall has proposed
reorganizing the service. Congress has requested more detail before approving funding transfers for initial changes
and may conduct oversight of the plan in more detail for FY2025.

***

The white paper is posted at: https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF12622

[Category: CRSCRS]

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8557357 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: April 3, 2024


  
