

                                                                              Page 1 of 3
          63RD CENTRAL GEOLOGICAL PROGRAMMING BOARD (CGPB) MEETING HELD IN BHOPAL




  63RD CENTRAL GEOLOGICAL PROGRAMMING BOARD (CGPB) MEETING
                       HELD IN BHOPAL
                                               States News Service
                                            January 22, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1575 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: NEW DELHI, India

Body


The following information was released by the Government of India:

The 63rd Central Geological Programming Board (CGPB) meeting was held today in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh.The
meeting was held under the Chairmanship of Shri V.L. Kantha Rao, Secretary, Ministry of Mines. Shri Sanjay
Lohiya, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Mines,Shri Janardan Prasad, Director General, GSI,senior functionaries of
different Ministries, State Directorates of Mining and Geology, PSUs, representatives from private mining industry,
Mining associations and other stakeholders attended thecrucial meeting.

The proposed Annual Programme for ensuing Field Season year 2024-25 was placed before the Board for
discussion. During the ensuing year 2024-25 GSI has formulated about 1055 scientific programs for the year 2024-
25, which includes 392 Mineral Development projects (G2;G3;G4; and Offshore Explorations) that has the potential
to generate auctionable mineral blocks in near future. 133 projects with mineral bias or Mineral Discovery Projects
(RMT; Research Project; C-MAP;GT; MPA; Multispectral/Hyperspectral projects) having potential for generating
promising areas for future exploration in G4 stage. Within the exploration activity, the major thrust has been given
on the exploration of strategic and critical and fertilizer minerals. A total of 188 projects on these strategically
important mineral commodities like REE, RM, Graphite, Lithium, Vanadium and PGE etc. have been approved for
the year 2024-25,which is almost a jump of 50% from previous years target.

Also 111 projects under Natural Hazard Studies/Public Good Geoscience have been taken having societal
benefits.Among these, 25 programmes are being taken up on State request/Disaster Management Authorities
which includes programme mostly covering the Natural Hazards and 43 programmes are in collaboration with
universities / agencies / under sponsorship of different authorities like IITs, NGRI, DRDO, NRSC-ISRO, University
of Hyderabad, ASI, CGWB Ministry of Jal Shakti, SJVNL, NWDA, Indian Railways, BRO and State Irrigation
Departments etc.

Besides, approval of the FSP items of GSI, the Report on Geological and Geotechnical investigation of Joshimath
Township, Chamoli District was also unveiled by Shri V.L. Kantha Rao, Secretary, Ministry of Mines for handing it
over to Uttarakhand Govt. The Mineral Map of the newly carved out UT of Ladakh was also released on this
occasion along with other significant publication of GSI.

                                                                             Page 2 of 3
         63RD CENTRAL GEOLOGICAL PROGRAMMING BOARD (CGPB) MEETING HELD IN BHOPAL

During his address, Shri V. L. Kantha Raohighlighted the importance of scientific rigor in mining sector. He urged
GSI and other exploration agencies to increase the pace of exploration and emphasized on exploration of Critical
Mineral.He also urged the State Governments to be more aggressive in implementation of exploration projects
through NMET funding.He requested stakeholders to make use of geoscience data available in NGDR portal for
smooth exploration process.

A two-hour session was earmarked for the recently launched National Geoscience Data Repository (NGDR) portal,
to brief stakeholders about this cloud-based portal, that will host all pre-competitive baseline geological and mineral
exploration data making it available to all participants in the mineral and mining sectors. This repository is designed
for utilization of cutting-edge technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) by Start-ups,
private mining companies and other exploration agencies for identifying subtle patterns and relationships within vast
datasets, terrain modelling etc. and has the capabilities to enhance the pace of mineral exploration significantly in
near future.

In the presence of other senior officials, Shri V.L. Kantha Rao, inaugurated an Exhibition on the theme, Mining and
Beyond, in which GSI, PSUs, DMFs, major mining companies, private exploration agencies, startups, Madhya
Pradesh Government showcased their achievements. PSUs like Manganese Ore India Ltd. (MOIL), Hindustan
Copper Limited (HCL), National Aluminum Company Ltd. (NALCO), Mineral Exploration Consultancy Ltd. (MECL)
showcased their best practices and technical advancements in this exhibition. While companies like HCL , NALCO
and HZL gave the visitors a feel of mining and mineral processing through their VR system ,Hindalco through VR
showcased their project of sustainable mining. BALCO and Tata Steel also participated in the exhibition. The
students of engineering colleges of Bhopal also visited the exhibition and got first hand exposure of the mining
sector.

Glimpses of the 63rdCGPB Meeting, Bhopal

Inauguration of the 63rdCGPB Meeting by traditional Lamp Lighting by Shri V.L. Kantha Rao, IAS, Secretary,
Ministry of Mines and Chairman CGPB, Shri Janardan Prasad, DG, GSI; and Shri Sanjay Lohiya, Addl. Secretary,
IAS, Ministry of Mines.

Release of the Mineral Map of the newly carved out UT of Ladakh, Report on Geological and Geotechnical
investigation of Joshimath Township, Chamoli District, Uttarakhand and otherPublications of GSI by Shri V.L.
Kantha Rao, IAS, Secretary, Ministry of Mines and Chairman CGPB, Shri Janardan Prasad, DG, GSI; and Shri
Sanjay Lohiya, Addl. Secretary, IAS, Ministry of Mines.

Address to the august gathering by Shri V.L. Kantha Rao, Secretary, Ministry of Mines and Chairman CGPB.

Shri Janardan Prasad, Director General, GSI addressing the gathering.

Shri Sanjay Lohiya, Addl. Secretary, IAS, Ministry of Mines addressing the gathering.

Shri V.L. Kantha Rao, Secretary, Ministry of Mines inaugurated an exhibition on theme of Mining and Beyond at
Minto Hall, Bhopal.

About CGPB

The Central Geological Programming Board (CGPB) is an important platform of the Geological Survey of India
(GSI), Ministry of Mines wherein the Annual Field Season Program (FSP) of GSI is placed for discussion and to
avoid duplication of work. The members of CGPB and other stakeholders like State Governments, Central/ State
Government Mineral Exploration Agencies, PSUs and Private Entrepreneurs place their requests for collaborative
work with GSI. Based on the priorities set by the Government of India and the importance and urgency of proposals
presented by the members and stakeholders, the Annual Programme of GSI for survey and mapping, exploration,
Research and Development, multidisciplinary catering to societal projects and training and capacity building
programmes during the forthcoming financial year is given a final shape after due discussion and deliberations held
at the topmost level at CGPB meeting, chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Mines, Government of India.

                                                                             Page 3 of 3
         63RD CENTRAL GEOLOGICAL PROGRAMMING BOARD (CGPB) MEETING HELD IN BHOPAL

The Ministry of Mines, Government of India, vide notification dated 18th August 2023, had revamped/ reconstituted
the CGPB Committee into 12 theme-based groups. The main objective of this reconstitution is to enable the States
and other Stakeholders to accrue benefit from wider participation and interaction with GSI to further their activities
and avoid duplication. It was felt that it would provide a forum for better coordination between Central and State
level stakeholders by encouraging the regular functioning of State Geological Programming Boards (SGPB), set up
by the State Governments. It was decided that the 12 Committees for the various sub-sectors would comprise
members and invitees from the concerned States and Agencies engaged in activities in the field relevant to that
particular sector and present their recommendations to the CGPB.

About Geological Survey of India

The Geological Survey of India (GSI) was set up in 1851 primarily to find coal deposits for the Railways. Over the
years, GSI has not only grown into a repository of geo-science information required in various fields in the country
but has also attained the status of a geo-scientific organisation of international repute. Its main functions relate to
creating and updating of national geoscientific information and mineral resource assessment. These objectives are
achieved through ground surveys, air-borne and marine surveys, mineral prospecting and investigations, multi-
disciplinary geoscientific, geo-technical, geo-environmental and natural hazards studies, glaciology, seismo-tectonic
study and carrying out fundamental research.

GSIs chief role includes providing objective, impartial and up-to-date geological expertise and geoscientific
information of all kinds, with a focus on policy making decisions, commercial and socio-economic needs. GSI also
emphasizes on systematic documentation of all geological processes both surface and subsurface, of India and its
offshore areas. The organization carries out this work through geological, geophysical, and geochemical surveys
using the latest does so by using the latest and most cost-effective techniques and methodologies.

GSIs core competence in survey and mapping is continuously enhanced through accretion, management,
coordination and utilization of spatial databases (including those acquired through remote sensing). It functions as a
Repository for the purpose and uses the latest computer-based technologies for dissemination of geoscientific
information and spatial data, through cooperation and collaboration with other stakeholders in the Geo-informatics
sector.

GSI, headquartered in Kolkata, has six regional offices located in Lucknow, Jaipur, Nagpur, Hyderabad, Shillong
and Kolkata and state unit offices in almost all states of the country. GSI is an attached office to the Ministry of
Mines.

****

BY/RKP/ST


Load-Date: January 22, 2024


  
