

                                                                                                Page 1 of 3
         Alex Ruslyakov of Acronis Recognized as 2024 CRN® Channel Chief for Third Consecutive Year




    Alex Ruslyakov of Acronis Recognized as 2024 CRN® Channel Chief for
                          Third Consecutive Year
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                             February 5, 2024 Monday 7:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CONTESTS/AWARDS; PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 1110 words

Body


This prestigious award recognizes executives who are driving strategy and setting the channel agenda for their
companiesAcronis #CyberFit Partner Program kicks off 2024 with new incentives and innovations to fuel rapid
growth

BURLINGTON, Mass., Feb. 05, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Today, Acronis is honored to announce
that CRN®, a brand of The Channel Company, has yet again recognized Alex Ruslyakov on its Channel Chiefs list.
The 2024 list marks the third consecutive year that Ruslyakov has achieved this recognition. The Channel Chiefs
list, released annually by CRN, showcases the top leaders throughout the IT channel ecosystem who work tirelessly
to ensure mutual success with their partners and customers.

As a channel-first organization, Acronis continues to evolve it’s #CyberFit Partner Program to best fit the needs of
its dedicated partners. In 2024, Acronis is introducing new updates to the program with a focus on helping its
partners increase ARR and embrace the wide range of Acronis security offerings.

Most recently, Acronis announced the native integration of its Advanced Security and Endpoint Detection and
Response (EDR) solutions. Tailored for MSPs, the single solution is offered at a very competitive price point. The
Sales Development Funds (SDF) Program, which helps support MSPs achieve their growth goals and objectives,
provides MDF and rebates with the partner's commitment to fast growth.

The #CyberFit Partner Program has also introduced an additional 10% rebate for MSPs who hit their targets on
security offerings, as well as other Acronis Advanced Packs. Partner Program incentives have been adjusted for
distributors to be focused around ARR growth and incremental active MSPs, rewarding distributors for performance
achievements in that area.

                                                                                               Page 2 of 3
        Alex Ruslyakov of Acronis Recognized as 2024 CRN® Channel Chief for Third Consecutive Year

Ruslyakov’s inclusion on the 2024 Channel Chiefs list is a testament to the 17-year Acronis veteran’s leadership,
partner-first approach, and his team's effectiveness in helping MSPs accelerate their business growth with robust
sales, marketing, and technical support day in and day out.

"It’s a huge honor to make CRN's Channel Chief's list three years in a row," Ruslyakov said. "We prioritize our
partners, and the success of the program reflects the mutual trust and commitment to joint channel development.
Leveraging our market position and extensive knowledge in cyber protection, we're dedicated to delivering the
safest and most cost-efficient options. This recognition underscores our commitment to partner success and
growth."

Building on the success of the #TeamUp Program, which has seen extraordinary growth since launched in February
2021, Acronis introduces the ‘Sports Ignite’ program providing sports benefits to mid-size and smaller partners with
a unique opportunity for MSPs to deliver Acronis Cyber Protection solutions to professional sports teams across the
globe.

“These channel evangelists are dedicated to supporting solution providers and achieving growth by implementing
robust partner programs and unique business strategies,” said Jennifer Follett, VP, US Content, and Executive
Editor, CRN, at The Channel Company. “Their efforts are instrumental in helping partners bring essential solutions
to market. The Channel Company is pleased to acknowledge these prominent channel leaders and looks forward to
chronicling their achievements throughout the year.”

CRN’s 2024 Channel Chiefs list will be featured in the February 2024 issue of CRN® Magazine and online at
www.CRN.com/ChannelChiefs.

To learn more about Ruslyakov's 2024 CRN Channel Chief achievement and the latest partner program updates,
check out our blog here: https://www.acronis.com/en-us/blog/posts/three-peat-for-alex-ruslyakov-recognized-as-
2024-crn-channel-chief/

Service providers interested in learning more about the Acronis partner programs are invited to join the 2024
Acronis Partner Kickoff, taking place on Thursday, February 8 at 10:00 am ET. Attendees will gain valuable insight
on new integration updates and learn how to reduce workloads, gain knowledge through Acronis certifications, and
receive an inside look at the latest Acronis tech roadmap.

Join us to learn how 2024 can be the year of growth by forging stronger partnerships with Acronis and providing
clients    with      world-class    cyber    protection.   To     register for the    virtual  global    event,
please visit: https://acronis.events/event/2024-acronis-partner-kickoff/

About AcronisAcronis unifies data protection and cybersecurity to deliver integrated, automated cyber protection
that solves the safety, accessibility, privacy, authenticity and security (SAPAS) challenges of the modern digital
world. With flexible deployment models that fit the demands of service providers and IT professionals, Acronis
provides superior cyber protection for data, applications, and systems with innovative next-generation antivirus,
backup, disaster recovery and endpoint protection management solutions powered by AI. With advanced anti-
malware powered by cutting-edge machine intelligence and blockchain-based data authentication technologies,
Acronis protects any environment — from cloud to hybrid to on premises — at a low and predictable cost.

Acronis is a Swiss company, founded in Singapore. Celebrating two decades of innovation, Acronis has 1,800+
employees in 45 locations. Acronis Cyber Protect Cloud solution is available in 26 languages in over 150 countries
and is used by 20,000+ service providers to protect over 750,000 businesses.

About The Channel Company

The Channel Company enables breakthrough IT channel performance with our dominant media, engaging events,
expert consulting and education, and innovative marketing services and platforms. As the channel catalyst, we
connect and empower technology suppliers, solution providers and end users. Backed by more than 40 years of

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
        Alex Ruslyakov of Acronis Recognized as 2024 CRN® Channel Chief for Third Consecutive Year

unequalled channel experience, we draw from our deep knowledge to envision innovative new solutions for ever-
evolving challenges in the technology marketplace. www.thechannelcompany.com

Follow The Channel Company: Twitter, LinkedIn, and Facebook.

© 2024. CRN is a registered trademark of The Channel Company, LLC. All rights reserved.

The Channel Company Contact:

Natalie Lewis

nlewis@thechannelcompany.com

Acronis Media Contact:

Julia CarfagnoJulia.Carfagno@acronis.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement          is       available                at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/490144f4-da2f-4f80-b993-ac4cbe98f709



Alex Ruslyakov of Acronis Recognized as 2024 CRN® Channel Chief for Third Consecutive Year

Acronis is honored to announce that CRN®, a brand of The Channel Company, has yet again recognized Alex
Ruslyakov on its Channel Chiefs list.


Load-Date: February 5, 2024


  
