

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 16
                           MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results




        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         January 31, 2024 Wednesday 4:05 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 14961 words
Dateline: MILWAUKEE, Jan. 31, 2024

Body


PR NewswireFourth Quarter 2023 Net Income of $184.5 million or $0.66 per Diluted ShareFourth Quarter
2023 Adjusted Net Operating Income (Non-GAAP) of$187.6 millionor$0.67 per Diluted ShareFull Year 2023
Net Income of $712.9 million or $2.49 per Diluted ShareFull Year 2023 Adjusted Net Operating Income (Non-
GAAP) of $724.4 million or $2.53 per Diluted ShareMILWAUKEE, Jan. 31, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- MGIC
Investment Corporation (NYSE: MTG) today reported operating and financial results for the fourth quarter of 2023
and the full year of 2023.Tim Mattke, CEO of MTG and Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation ("MGIC") said,
"The fourth quarter capped another successful year. In 2023, we again delivered excellent financial results, and
returned meaningful capital to our shareholders. During the year, we remained committed to delivering long-term
value for our shareholders, disciplined in our approach to the market, and focused on through-the-cycle
performance. We enter 2024 with financial strength and capital flexibility, and we are excited for the opportunities
that the new year will bring." FOURTH QUARTER 2023 HIGHLIGHTSWe paid a dividend of $0.115 per common
share to shareholders during the fourth quarter of 2023.We repurchased 7.0 million shares of common stock at an
average cost of $17.57 per share.MGIC paid a $300 million dividend to our holding company.We executed several
reinsurance transactions, as previously announced, to align with our strategy to reinsure our most recent or future
NIW and recapture risk on attractive seasoned vintages:We executed a $330 million excess of loss reinsurance
agreement (executed through an insurance linked notes transaction) that covers the vast majority of policies issued
June 1, 2022 through August 31, 2023.We executed a 30% quota share transaction with a group of unaffiliated
reinsurers covering most of our new insurance written in 2024.We terminated our 2020 quota share reinsurance
transaction effective December 31, 2023 and incurred termination fees of $5 million.Home Re 2019-1 Ltd., Home
Re 2021-1 Ltd., and Home Re 2021-2 Ltd conducted tender offers for certain tranches of the mortgage insurance-
linked notes that supported the reinsurance agreement with MGIC. In aggregate, $384.9 million of outstanding
notes were purchased. The reinsurance coverage corresponding to the tendered notes was terminated. MGIC
incurred $8 million of additional ceded premium in the fourth quarter associated with the cost of the tender
premiums and associated expense.We appointed Michael Thompson to our Board of Directors.FIRST QUARTER
2024 HIGHLIGHTSThrough January 26, 2024, we repurchased an additional 1.8 million shares of our common
stock at an average cost of $19.40 per share.We declared a dividend of $0.115 per common share to shareholders
payable on March 5, 2024, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2024.In January,
S&P upgraded MGIC's financial strength and credit rating to A- and at the same time upgraded the credit rating on
MGIC Investment to BBB-. The outlook for the ratings is stable.Conference Call and Webcast DetailsMGIC
Investment Corporation will hold a conference call February 1, 2024, at 10 a.m. ET to allow securities analysts and
shareholders the opportunity to hear management discuss the company's quarterly results. Individuals interested in

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

joining            by          telephone          should          register           for         the          call
athttps://register.vevent.com/register/BI7798780415c145638bcc06b0b9aa7bbdto receive the dial-in number and
unique PIN to access the call. It is recommended that you join the call at least 10 minutes before the conference
call begins. The call is also being webcast and can be accessed at the company's website
athttp://mtg.mgic.com/under "Newsroom." A replay of the webcast will be available on the company's website
through March 1, 2024.

About MGICMortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation (MGIC) (www.mgic.com), the principal subsidiary of MGIC
Investment Corporation, serves lenders throughout the United States, helping families achieve homeownership
sooner by making affordable low-down-payment mortgages a reality through the use of private mortgage insurance.
At December 31, 2023, MGIC had $293.5 billion of primary insurance in force covering 1.1 million mortgages.This
press release, which includes certain additional statistical and other information, including non-GAAP financial
information and a supplement that contains various portfolio statistics, are all available on the Company's website
at https://mtg.mgic.com/ under "Newsroom."From time to time MGIC Investment Corporation releases important
information via postings on its corporate website, and via postings on MGIC's website for information related to
underwriting and pricing, and intends to continue to do so in the future. Such postings include corrections of
previous disclosures and may be made without any other disclosure. Investors and other interested parties are
encouraged to enroll to receive automatic email alerts and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds regarding new
postings.     Enrollment     information   for   MGIC      Investment      Corporation    alerts   can     be    found
at https://mtg.mgic.com/shareholder-services/email-alerts. For information about our underwriting and rates,
see https://www.mgic.com/underwriting.Safe Harbor StatementForward Looking Statements and Risk
Factors:Our actual results could be affected by the risk factors below. These risk factors should be reviewed in
connection with this press release and our periodic reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
These risk factors may also cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by forward
looking statements that we may make. Forward looking statements consist of statements which relate to matters
other than historical fact, including matters that inherently refer to future events. Among others, statements that
include words such as "believe," "anticipate," "will" or "expect," or words of similar import, are forward looking
statements. We are not undertaking any obligation to update any forward looking statements or other statements
we may make even though these statements may be affected by events or circumstances occurring after the
forward looking statements or other statements were made. No investor should rely on the fact that such
statements are current at any time other than the time at which this press release was delivered for dissemination to
the public.While we communicate with security analysts from time to time, it is against our policy to disclose to them
any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that
we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report,
and such reports are not our responsibility.Use of Non-GAAP financial measuresWe believe that use of the Non-
GAAP measures of adjusted pre-tax operating income (loss), adjusted net operating income (loss) and adjusted net
operating income (loss) per diluted share facilitate the evaluation of the company's core financial performance
thereby providing relevant information to investors. These measures are not recognized in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and should not be viewed as
alternatives to GAAP measures of performance.Adjusted pre-tax operating income (loss) is defined as GAAP
income (loss) before tax, excluding the effects of net realized investment gains (losses), gain and losses on debt
extinguishment and infrequent or unusual non-operating items where applicable.Adjusted net operating income
(loss) is defined as GAAP net income (loss) excluding the after-tax effects of net realized investment gains
(losses), gain and losses on debt extinguishment and infrequent or unusual non-operating items where applicable.
The amounts of adjustments to components of pre-tax operating income (loss) are tax effected using a federal
statutory tax rate of 21%.Adjusted net operating income (loss) per diluted share is calculated in a manner
consistent with the accounting standard regarding earnings per share by dividing (i) adjusted net operating income
(loss) after making adjustments for interest expense on convertible debt, whenever the impact is dilutive, by (ii)
diluted weighted average common shares outstanding, which reflects share dilution from unvested restricted stock
units and from convertible debt when dilutive under the "if-converted" method.Although adjusted pre-tax operating
income (loss) and adjusted net operating income (loss) exclude certain items that have occurred in the past and are
expected to occur in the future, the excluded items represent items that are: (1) not viewed as part of the operating
performance of our primary activities; or (2) impacted by both discretionary and other economic or regulatory factors

                                                                                                     Page 3 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

and are not necessarily indicative of operating trends, or both. These adjustments, along with the reasons for their
treatment, are described below. Trends in the profitability of our fundamental operating activities can be more
clearly identified without the fluctuations of these adjustments. Other companies may calculate these measures
differently. Therefore, their measures may not be comparable to those used by us.              Risk FactorsAs used
below, "we," "our" and "us" refer to MGIC Investment Corporation's consolidated operations or to MGIC Investment
Corporation, as the context requires; and "MGIC" refers to Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation.Risk Factors
Relating to Global EventsWars and/or other global events may adversely affect the U.S. economy and our
business.Wars and/or other global events may result in increased inflation rates, strained supply chains, and
increased volatility in the domestic and global financial markets. Wars and/or other global events have in the past
and may continue to impact our business in various ways, including the following which are described in more detail
in the remainder of these risk factors:The terms under which we are able to obtain quota share reinsurance ("QSR")
and/or excess-of-loss ("XOL") reinsurance through the insurance-linked notes ("ILN") market and the traditional
reinsurance market may be negatively impacted and terms under which we are able to access those markets in the
future may be limited or less attractive.The risk of a cybersecurity incident that affects our company may
increase.Wars may negatively impact the domestic economy, which may increase unemployment and inflation, or
decrease home prices, in each case leading to an increase in loan delinquencies.The volatility in the financial
markets may impact the performance of our investment portfolio and our investment portfolio may include
investments in companies or securities that are negatively impacted by wars and/or other global events.Risk
Factors Relating to the Mortgage Insurance Industry and its RegulationDownturns in the domestic
economy or declines in home prices may result in more homeowners defaulting and our losses increasing,
with a corresponding decrease in our returns.Losses result from events that reduce a borrower's ability or
willingness to make mortgage payments, such as unemployment, health issues, changes in family status, and
decreases in home prices that result in the borrower's mortgage balance exceeding the net value of the home. A
deterioration in economic conditions, including an increase in unemployment, generally increases the likelihood that
borrowers will not have sufficient income to pay their mortgages and can also adversely affect home prices.High
levels of unemployment may result in an increasing number of loan delinquencies and an increasing number of
insurance claims; however, unemployment is difficult to predict given the uncertainty in the current market
environment, including as a result of global events such as wars, instability in the financial services industry, and
the possibility of an economic recession. The seasonally-adjusted Purchase-Only U.S. Home Price Index of the
Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA"), which is based on single-family properties whose mortgages have
been purchased or securitized by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, indicates that home prices increased 0.3%
nationwide in November, 2023 compared to October, 2023. Although the 12 month change in home prices recently
reached historically high rates, the rate of growth is moderating: it increased by 6.5% in the first eleven months of
2023, after increasing 6.8%, and 17.8% in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The national average price-to-income ratio
exceeds its historical average, in part as a result of recent home price appreciation outpacing increases in income.
Affordability issues can put downward pressure on home prices. A decline in home prices may occur even absent a
deterioration in economic conditions due to declines in demand for homes, which in turn may result from changes in
buyers' perceptions of the potential for future appreciation, restrictions on and the cost of mortgage credit due to
more stringent underwriting standards, higher interest rates, changes to the tax deductibility of mortgage interest,
decreases in the rate of household formations, or other factors. Changes in the business practices of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac ("the GSEs"), federal legislation that changes their charters or a restructuring of the
GSEs could reduce our revenues or increase our losses.The substantial majority of our new insurance written
("NIW") is for loans purchased by the GSEs; therefore, the business practices of the GSEs greatly impact our
business. In 2022 the GSEs each published Equitable Housing Finance Plans ("Plans"). Updated Plans were
subsequently published by each GSE in April 2023. The Plans seek to advance equity in housing finance over a
three-year period and include potential changes to the GSEs' business practices and policies. Specifically relating
to mortgage insurance, (1) Fannie Mae's Plan includes the creation of special purpose credit program(s) ("SPCPs")
targeted to historically underserved borrowers with a goal of lowering costs for such borrowers through lower than
standard mortgage insurance requirements; and (2) Freddie Mac's Plan includes plans to work with mortgage
insurers to look for ways to lower mortgage costs, the creation of SPCPs targeted to historically underserved
borrowers, and the planned purchase of loans originated through lender-created SPCPs. To the extent the
business practices and policies of the GSEs regarding mortgage insurance coverage, costs and cancellation
change, including more broadly than through SPCPs, such changes may negatively impact the mortgage insurance

                                                                                                     Page 4 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

industry and our financial results. Other business practices of the GSEs that affect the mortgage insurance
industry include:The GSEs' private mortgage insurer eligibility requirements ("PMIERs"), the financial requirements
of which are discussed in our risk factor titled "We may not continue to meet the GSEs' private mortgage insurer
eligibility requirements and our returns may decrease if we are required to maintain more capital in order to
maintain our eligibility."The capital and collateral requirements for participants in the GSEs' alternative forms of
credit enhancement discussed in our risk factor titled "The amount of insurance we write could be adversely
affected if lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance or are unable to obtain capital
relief for mortgage insurance."The level of private mortgage insurance coverage, subject to the limitations of the
GSEs' charters, when private mortgage insurance is used as the required credit enhancement on low down
payment mortgages (the GSEs generally require a level of mortgage insurance coverage that is higher than the
level of coverage required by their charters; any change in the required level of coverage will impact our new risk
written).The amount of loan level price adjustments and guaranty fees (which result in higher costs to borrowers)
that the GSEs assess on loans that require private mortgage insurance. The requirements of the new GSE capital
framework may lead the GSEs to increase their guaranty fees. In addition, the FHFA has indicated that it is
reviewing the GSEs' pricing in connection with preparing them to exit conservatorship and to ensure that pricing
subsidies benefit only affordable housing activities.Whether the GSEs select or influence the mortgage lender's
selection of the mortgage insurer providing coverage.The underwriting standards that determine which loans are
eligible for purchase by the GSEs, which can affect the quality of the risk insured by the mortgage insurer and the
availability of mortgage loans.The terms on which mortgage insurance coverage can be canceled before reaching
the cancellation thresholds established by law and the business practices associated with such cancellations. If the
GSEs or other mortgage investors change their practices regarding the timing of cancellation of mortgage insurance
due to home price appreciation, policy goals, changing risk tolerances or otherwise, we could experience an
unexpected reduction in our insurance in force ("IIF"), which would negatively impact our business and financial
results. For more information, see the above discussion of the GSEs' Equitable Housing Plans and our risk factor
titled "Changes in interest rates, house prices or mortgage insurance cancellation requirements may change the
length of time that our policies remain in force."The programs established by the GSEs intended to avoid or mitigate
loss on insured mortgages and the circumstances in which mortgage servicers must implement such programs.The
terms that the GSEs require to be included in mortgage insurance policies for loans that they purchase, including
limitations on the rescission rights of mortgage insurers.The extent to which the GSEs intervene in mortgage
insurers' claims paying practices, rescission practices or rescission settlement practices with lenders.The maximum
loan limits of the GSEs compared to those of the Federal Housing Administration ("FHA") and other investors.The
benchmarks established by the FHFA for loans to be purchased by the GSEs, which can affect the loans available
to be insured. In December 2021, the FHFA established the benchmark levels for 2022-2024 purchases of low-
income home mortgages, very low-income home mortgages and low-income refinance mortgages, each of which
exceeded the 2021 benchmarks. The FHFA also established two new sub-goals: one targeting minority
communities and the other targeting low-income neighborhoods.The FHFA has been the conservator of the GSEs
since 2008 and has the authority to control and direct their operations. Given that the Director of the FHFA is
removable by the President at will, the agency's agenda, policies and actions are influenced by the then-current
administration. The increased role that the federal government has assumed in the residential housing finance
system through the GSE conservatorships may increase the likelihood that the business practices of the GSEs
change, including through administration changes and actions. Such changes could have a material adverse effect
on us. The GSEs also possess substantial market power, which enables them to influence our business and the
mortgage insurance industry in general.It is uncertain what role the GSEs, FHA and private capital, including private
mortgage insurance, will play in the residential housing finance system in the future. The timing and impact on our
business of any resulting changes are uncertain. For changes that would require Congressional action to implement
it is difficult to estimate when Congressional action would be final and how long any associated phase-in period
may last.We may not continue to meet the GSEs' private mortgage insurer eligibility requirements and our
returns may decrease if we are required to maintain more capital in order to maintain our eligibility.We must
comply with a GSE's PMIERs to be eligible to insure loans delivered to or purchased by that GSE. The PMIERs
include financial requirements, as well as business, quality control and certain transaction approval requirements.
The PMIERs provide that the GSEs may amend any provision of the PMIERs or impose additional requirements
with an effective date specified by the GSEs.The financial requirements of the PMIERs require a mortgage insurer's
"Available Assets" (generally only the most liquid assets of an insurer) to equal or exceed its "Minimum Required

                                                                                                     Page 5 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

Assets" (which are generally based on an insurer's book of risk in force and calculated from tables of factors with
several risk dimensions, reduced for credit given for risk ceded under reinsurance agreements).Based on our
interpretation of the PMIERs, as of December 31, 2023, MGIC's Available Assets totaled $5.8 billion, or $2.4 billion
in excess of its Minimum Required Assets. MGIC is in compliance with the PMIERs and eligible to insure loans
purchased by the GSEs. Our "Minimum Required Assets" reflect a credit for risk ceded under our QSR and XOL
reinsurance transactions, which are discussed in our risk factor titled"The mix of business we write affects our
Minimum Required Assets under the PMIERs, our premium yields and the likelihood of losses occurring."The
calculated credit for XOL reinsurance transactions under PMIERs is generally based on the PMIERs requirement of
the covered loans and the attachment and detachment points of the coverage, all of which fluctuate over time.
PMIERs credit is generally not given for the reinsured risk above the PMIERs requirement. The GSEs have
discretion to further limit reinsurance credit under the PMIERs. Refer to "Consolidated Results of Operations –
Reinsurance Transactions" in Part I, Item 2 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information about the
calculated PMIERs credit for our XOL transactions. There is a risk we will not receive our current level of credit in
future periods for ceded risk. In addition, we may not receive the same level of credit under future reinsurance
transactions that we receive under existing transactions. If MGIC is not allowed certain levels of credit under the
PMIERs, under certain circumstances, MGIC may terminate the reinsurance transactions without penalty.The
PMIERs generally require us to hold significantly more Minimum Required Assets for delinquent loans than for
performing loans and the Minimum Required Assets required to be held increases as the number of payments
missed on a delinquent loan increases. If the number of loan delinquencies increases for reasons discussed in
these risk factors, or otherwise, it may cause our Minimum Required Assets to exceed our Available Assets. We are
unable to predict the ultimate number of loans that will become delinquent.If our Available Assets fall below our
Minimum Required Assets, we would not be in compliance with the PMIERs. The PMIERs provide a list of
remediation actions for a mortgage insurer's non-compliance, with additional actions possible in the GSEs'
discretion. At the extreme, the GSEs may suspend or terminate our eligibility to insure loans purchased by them.
Such suspension or termination would significantly reduce the volume of our NIW, the substantial majority of which
is for loans delivered to or purchased by the GSEs.Should capital be needed by MGIC in the future, capital
contributions from our holding company may not be available due to competing demands on holding company
resources, including for repayment of debt.Because loss reserve estimates are subject to uncertainties, paid
claims may be substantially different than our loss reserves.When we establish case reserves, we estimate
our ultimate loss on delinquent loans by estimating the number of such loans that will result in a claim payment (the
"claim rate"), and further estimating the amount of the claim payment (the "claim severity"). Changes to our claim
rate and claim severity estimates could have a material impact on our future results, even in a stable economic
environment. Our estimates incorporate anticipated cures, loss mitigation activity, rescissions and curtailments. The
establishment of loss reserves is subject to inherent uncertainty and requires significant judgment by management.
Our actual claim payments may differ substantially from our loss reserve estimates. Our estimates could be affected
by several factors, including a change in regional or national economic conditions as discussed in these risk factors
and a change in the length of time loans are delinquent before claims are received. Generally, the longer a loan is
delinquent before a claim is received, the greater the severity. Foreclosure moratoriums and forbearance programs
increase the average time it takes to receive claims. Economic conditions may differ from region to region.
Information about the geographic dispersion of our risk in force and delinquency inventory can be found in our
Annual Reports on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, losses
incurred generally followed a seasonal trend in which the second half of the year has weaker credit performance
than the first half, with higher new default notice activity and a lower cure rate.We are subject to comprehensive
regulation and other requirements, which we may fail to satisfy.We are subject to comprehensive regulation,
including by state insurance departments. Many regulations are designed for the protection of our insured
policyholders and consumers, rather than for the benefit of investors. Mortgage insurers, including MGIC, have in
the past been involved in litigation and regulatory actions related to alleged violations of the anti-referral fee
provisions of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ("RESPA"), and the notice provisions of the Fair Credit
Reporting Act ("FCRA"). While these proceedings in the aggregate did not result in material liability for MGIC, there
can be no assurance that the outcome of future proceedings, if any, under these laws or others would not have a
material adverse effect on us.We provide contract underwriting services, including on loans for which we are not
providing mortgage insurance. These services are subject to federal and state regulation. Our failure to meet the
standards set forth in the applicable regulations would subject us to potential regulatory action. To the extent that

                                                                                                       Page 6 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

we are construed to make independent credit decisions in connection with our contract underwriting activities, we
also could be subject to increased regulatory requirements under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act ("ECOA"),
FCRA, and other laws. Under relevant laws, examination may also be made of whether a mortgage insurer's
underwriting decisions have a disparate impact on persons belonging to a protected class in violation of the
law.Although their scope varies, state insurance laws generally grant broad supervisory powers to agencies or
officials to examine insurance companies and enforce rules or exercise discretion affecting almost every significant
aspect of the insurance business, including payment for the referral of insurance business, premium rates and
discrimination in pricing, and minimum capital requirements. The increased use, by the private mortgage insurance
industry, of risk-based pricing systems that establish premium rates based on more attributes than previously
considered, and of algorithms, artificial intelligence and data and analytics, has led to additional regulatory
scrutiny of premium rates and of other matters such as discrimination in pricing and underwriting, data privacy and
access to insurance. For more information about state capital requirements, see our risk factor titled "State capital
requirements may prevent us from continuing to write new insurance on an uninterrupted basis." For information
about regulation of data privacy, see our risk factor titled "We could be materially adversely affected by a
cybersecurity breach or failure of information security controls." For more details about the various ways in which
our subsidiaries are regulated, see "Business - Regulation" in Item 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2022.While we have established policies and procedures to comply with applicable laws
and regulations, many such laws and regulations are complex and it is not possible to predict the eventual scope,
duration or outcome of any reviews or investigations nor is it possible to predict their effect on us or the mortgage
insurance industry.Pandemics, hurricanes and other disasters may impact our incurred losses, the amount
and timing of paid claims, our inventory of notices of default and our Minimum Required Assets under
PMIERs.Pandemics and other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires and floods, or other
events related to climate change, could trigger an economic downturn in the affected areas, or in areas with similar
risks, which could result in a decrease in home prices and an increased claim rate and claim severity in those
areas. Due to the increased frequency and severity of natural disasters, some homeowners' insurers are
withdrawing from certain states or areas that they deem to be high risk. Even though we do not generally insure
losses related to property damage, the inability of a borrower to obtain hazard and/or flood insurance, or the
increased cost of such insurance, could lead to a decrease in home prices in the affected areas and an increase in
delinquencies and our incurred losses.Pandemics and other disasters could also lead to increased reinsurance
rates or reduced availability of reinsurance. This may cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain
and could negatively affect our compliance with the financial requirements of State Capital Requirements and the
PMIERs.The PMIERs require us to maintain significantly more "Minimum Required Assets" for delinquent loans
than for performing loans. See our risk factor titled"We may not continue to meet the GSEs' private mortgage
insurer eligibility requirements and our returns may decrease if we are required to maintain more capital in order to
maintain our eligibility."FHFA is working to incorporate climate risk considerations into its policy development and
processes. The FHFA has also instructed the GSEs to designate climate change as a priority concern and actively
consider its effects in their decision making. In 2022, FHFA established internal working groups and a steering
committee in order to monitor the GSEs' management of climate risk. It is possible that efforts to manage these
risks by the FHFA, GSEs (including through GSE guideline or mortgage insurance policy changes) or others could
materially impact the volume and characteristics of our NIW (including its policy terms), home prices in certain
areas and defaults by borrowers in certain areas.Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices,
and/or the GSEs may reduce the amount of capital credit we receive for our reinsurance transactions.We
have in place QSR and XOL reinsurance transactions providing various amounts of coverage on our risk in force as
of December 31, 2023. Refer to Part 1, Note 4 – "Reinsurance" and Part 1, Item 2 "Consolidated Results of
Operations – Reinsurance Transactions" of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for more information about
coverage under our reinsurance transactions. The reinsurance transactions reduce the tail-risk associated with
stress scenarios. As a result, they reduce the risk-based capital that we are required to hold to support the risk and
they allow us to earn higher returns on risk-based capital for our business than we would without them. However,
market conditions impact the availability and cost of reinsurance. Reinsurance may not always be available to us, or
available only on terms or at costs that we consider unacceptable. If we are not able to obtain reinsurance we will
be required to hold additional capital to support our risk in force.Reinsurance transactions subject us to counterparty
risk, including the financial capability of the reinsurers to make payments for losses ceded to them under the
reinsurance agreements. As reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay claims to our policyholders,

                                                                                                         Page 7 of 16
                         MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

our inability to recover losses from a reinsurer could have a material impact on our results of operations and
financial condition. The GSEs may change the credit they allow under the PMIERs for risk ceded under our
reinsurance transactions. If the GSEs were to reduce the credit that we receive for reinsurance under the PMIERs,
it could result in decreased returns absent an increase in our premium rates. An increase in our premium rates to
adjust for a decrease in reinsurance credit may lead to a decrease in our NIW and net income. Because we
establish loss reserves only upon a loan delinquency rather than based on estimates of our ultimate losses
on risk in force, losses may have a disproportionate adverse effect on our earnings in certain periods.In
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we establish case reserves for
insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses only when delinquency notices are received for insured loans that
are two or more payments past due and for loans we estimate are delinquent but for which delinquency notices
have not yet been received (which we include in "IBNR"). Losses that may occur from loans that are not delinquent
are not reflected in our financial statements, except when a "premium deficiency" is recorded. A premium deficiency
would be recorded if the present value of expected future losses and expenses exceeds the present value of
expected future premiums and already established loss reserves on the applicable loans. As a result, future losses
incurred on loans that are not currently delinquent may have a material impact on future results as delinquencies
emerge. As of December 31, 2023, we had established case reserves and reported losses incurred for 25,650
loans in our delinquency inventory and our IBNR reserve totaled $22 million. The number of loans in our
delinquency inventory may increase from that level as a result of economic conditions relating to current global
events or other factors and our losses incurred may increase.State capital requirements may prevent us from
continuing to write new insurance on an uninterrupted basis.The insurance laws of 16 jurisdictions, including
Wisconsin, MGIC's domiciliary state, require a mortgage insurer to maintain a minimum amount of statutory capital
relative to its risk in force (or a similar measure) in order for the mortgage insurer to continue to write new business.
We refer to these requirements as the "State Capital Requirements." While they vary among jurisdictions, the most
common State Capital Requirements allow for a maximum risk-to-capital ratio of 25 to 1. A risk-to-capital ratio will
increase if (i) the percentage decrease in capital exceeds the percentage decrease in insured risk, or (ii) the
percentage increase in capital is less than the percentage increase in insured risk. Wisconsin does not regulate
capital by using a risk-to-capital measure but instead requires a minimum policyholder position ("MPP"). MGIC's
"policyholder position" includes its net worth, or surplus, and its contingency reserve.At December 31, 2023,
MGIC's risk-to-capital ratio was 10.2 to 1, below the maximum allowed by the jurisdictions with State Capital
Requirements, and its policyholder position was $3.9 billion above the required MPP of $2.2 billion. Our risk-to-
capital ratio and MPP reflect credit for the risk ceded under our reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated
reinsurers.If MGIC is not allowed an agreed level of credit under the State Capital Requirements, MGIC may
terminate the reinsurance transactions, without penalty.The NAIC established a Mortgage Guaranty Insurance
Working Group to determine and make recommendations to the NAIC's Financial Condition Committee as to what,
if any, changes to make to the solvency and other regulations relating to mortgage guaranty insurers. A draft of a
revised Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Model Act was adopted by the Financial Condition Committee in July 2023
and by the Executive Committee and Plenary NAIC in August 2023. The revised Model Act includes requirements
relating to, among other things: (i) capital and minimum capital requirements, and contingency reserves; (ii)
restrictions on mortgage insurers' investments in notes secured by mortgages; (iii) prudent underwriting standards
and formal underwriting guidelines; (iv) the establishment of formal, internal "Mortgage Guaranty Quality Control
Programs" with respect to in-force business; and (v) reinsurance and prohibitions on captive reinsurance
arrangements. It is uncertain when the revised Model Act will be adopted in any jurisdiction. The provisions of the
Model Act, if adopted in their final form, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. It is
unknown whether any changes will be made by state legislatures prior to adoption, and the effect changes, if any,
will have on the mortgage guaranty insurance market generally, or on our business.While MGIC currently meets the
State Capital Requirements of Wisconsin and all other jurisdictions, it could be prevented from writing new business
in the future in all jurisdictions if it fails to meet the State Capital Requirements of Wisconsin, or it could be
prevented from writing new business in a particular jurisdiction if it fails to meet the State Capital Requirements of
that jurisdiction, and in each case if MGIC does not obtain a waiver of such requirements. It is possible that
regulatory action by one or more jurisdictions, including those that do not have specific State Capital Requirements,
may prevent MGIC from continuing to write new insurance in such jurisdictions. If we are unable to write business in
a particular jurisdiction, lenders may be unwilling to procure insurance from us anywhere. In addition, a lender's
assessment of the future ability of our insurance operations to meet the State Capital Requirements or the PMIERs

                                                                                                        Page 8 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

may affect its willingness to procure insurance from us. In this regard, see our risk factor titled"Competition or
changes in our relationships with our customers could reduce our revenues, reduce our premium yields and/or
increase our losses."A possible future failure by MGIC to meet the State Capital Requirements or the PMIERs will
not necessarily mean that MGIC lacks sufficient resources to pay claims on its insurance liabilities. You should read
the rest of these risk factors for information about matters that could negatively affect MGIC's compliance with State
Capital Requirements and its claims paying resources.If the volume of low down payment home mortgage
originations declines, the amount of insurance that we write could decline.The factors that may affect the
volume of low down payment mortgage originations include the health of the U.S. economy; conditions in regional
and local economies and the level of consumer confidence; the health and stability of the financial services industry;
restrictions on mortgage credit due to more stringent underwriting standards, liquidity issues or risk-retention and/or
capital requirements affecting lenders; the level of home mortgage interest rates; housing affordability; new and
existing housing availability; the rate of household formation, which is influenced, in part, by population and
immigration trends; homeownership rates; the rate of home price appreciation, which in times of heavy refinancing
can affect whether refinanced loans have LTV ratios that require private mortgage insurance; and government
housing policy encouraging loans to first-time homebuyers. A decline in the volume of low down payment home
mortgage originations could decrease demand for mortgage insurance and limit our NIW. For other factors that
could decrease the demand for mortgage insurance, see our risk factor titled"The amount of insurance we write
could be adversely affected if lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance or are unable
to obtain capital relief for mortgage insurance."The amount of insurance we write could be adversely affected if
lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage insurance or are unable to obtain capital relief
for mortgage insurance.Alternatives to private mortgage insurance include:investors using risk mitigation and
credit risk transfer techniques other than private mortgage insurance, or accepting credit risk without credit
enhancement,lenders and other investors holding mortgages in portfolio and self-insuring,lenders using FHA, U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs ("VA") and other government mortgage insurance programs, andlenders originating
mortgages using piggyback structures to avoid private mortgage insurance, such as a first mortgage with an 80%
loan-to-value ("LTV") ratio and a second mortgage with a 10%, 15% or 20% LTV ratio rather than a first mortgage
with a 90%, 95% or 100% LTV ratio that has private mortgage insurance.The GSEs' charters generally require
credit enhancement for a low down payment mortgage loan (a loan in an amount that exceeds 80% of a home's
value) in order for such loan to be eligible for purchase by the GSEs. Private mortgage insurance generally has
been purchased by lenders in primary mortgage market transactions to satisfy this credit enhancement
requirement. In 2018, the GSEs initiated secondary mortgage market programs with loan level mortgage default
coverage provided by various (re)insurers that are not mortgage insurers governed by PMIERs, and that are not
selected by the lenders. These programs, which currently account for a small percentage of the low down payment
market, compete with traditional private mortgage insurance and, due to differences in policy terms, they may offer
premium rates that are below prevalent single premium lender-paid mortgage insurance ("LPMI") rates. We
participate in these programs from time to time. See our risk factor titled "Changes in the business practices of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's ("the GSEs"), federal legislation that changes their charters or a restructuring of the
GSEs could reduce our revenues or increase our losses"for a discussion of various business practices of the GSEs
that may be changed, including through expansion or modification of these programs.The GSEs (and other
investors) have also used other forms of credit enhancement that did not involve traditional private mortgage
insurance, such as engaging in credit-linked note transactions executed in the capital markets, or using other forms
of debt issuances or securitizations that transfer credit risk directly to other investors, including competitors and an
affiliate of MGIC; using other risk mitigation techniques in conjunction with reduced levels of private mortgage
insurance coverage; or accepting credit risk without credit enhancement.If the FHA or other government-supported
mortgage insurance programs increase their share of the mortgage insurance market, our business could be
affected. The FHA's share of the low down payment residential mortgages that were subject to FHA, VA, USDA or
primary private mortgage insurance was 26.7% in 2022, 24.7% in 2021, and 23.4% in 2020. Beginning in 2012, the
FHA's share has been as low as 23.4% (in 2020) and as high as 42.1% (in 2012). Factors that influence the FHA's
market share include relative rates and fees, underwriting guidelines and loan limits of the FHA, VA, private
mortgage insurers and the GSEs; changes to the GSEs' business practices; lenders' perceptions of legal risks
under FHA versus GSE programs; flexibility for the FHA to establish new products as a result of federal legislation
and programs; returns expected to be obtained by lenders for Ginnie Mae securitization of FHA-insured loans
compared to those obtained from selling loans to the GSEs for securitization; and differences in policy terms, such

                                                                                                       Page 9 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

as the ability of a borrower to cancel insurance coverage under certain circumstances. On February 22, 2023, the
FHA announced a 30-basis point decrease in its mortgage insurance premium rates. This rate reduction has
negatively impacted our NIW. We are unable to predict the extent of any further impact on our NIW or how the
factors that affect the FHA's share of NIW will change in the future. The VA's share of the low down payment
residential mortgages that were subject to FHA, VA, USDA or primary private mortgage insurance was 24.5% in
2022, 30.2% in 2021, and 30.9% in 2020. Beginning in 2012, the VA's share has been as low as 22.8% (in 2013)
and as high as 30.9% (in 2020). We believe that the VA's market share grows as the number of borrowers that are
eligible for the VA's program increases, and when eligible borrowers opt to use the VA program when refinancing
their mortgages. The VA program offers 100% LTV ratio loans and charges a one-time funding fee that can be
included in the loan amount.In July 2023, the Federal Reserve Board, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency proposed a revised regulatory capital rule that would impose higher
capital standards on large U.S. banks. Under the proposed regulation's new expanded risk-based approach,
affected banks would no longer receive risk-based capital relief for mortgage insurance on loans held in their
portfolios. If adopted as proposed, the regulation is expected to have a negative effect on our NIW; however, at this
time it is difficult to predict the extent of the impact.Changes in interest rates, house prices or mortgage
insurance cancellation requirements may change the length of time that our policies remain in force.The
premium from a single premium policy is collected upfront and generally earned over the estimated life of the policy.
In contrast, premiums from monthly and annual premium policies are received each month or year, as applicable,
and earned each month over the life of the policy. In each year, most of our premiums earned are from insurance
that has been written in prior years. As a result, the length of time insurance remains in force, which is generally
measured by persistency (the percentage of our insurance remaining in force from one year prior), is a significant
determinant of our revenues. A higher than expected persistency rate may decrease the profitability from single
premium policies because they will remain in force longer and may increase the incidence of claims that was
estimated when the policies were written. A low persistency rate on monthly and annual premium policies will
reduce future premiums but may also reduce the incidence of claims, while a high persistency on those policies will
increase future premiums but may increase the incidence of claims.Our annual persistency rate was 86.1% at
December 31, 2023, 82.2% at December 31, 2022, and 66.0% at December 31, 2021. Since 2018, our annual
persistency rate ranged from a high of 86.3% at September 30, 2023 to a low of 60.7% at March 31, 2021. Our
persistency rate is primarily affected by the level of current mortgage interest rates compared to the mortgage
coupon rates on our insurance in force, which affects the vulnerability of the IIF to refinancing; and the current
amount of equity that borrowers have in the homes underlying our insurance in force. The amount of equity affects
persistency in the following ways:Borrowers with significant equity may be able to refinance their loans without
requiring mortgage insurance.The Homeowners Protection Act ("HOPA") requires servicers to cancel mortgage
insurance when a borrower's LTV ratio meets or is scheduled to meet certain levels, generally based on the original
value of the home and subject to various conditions and exclusions.The GSEs' mortgage insurance cancellation
guidelines apply more broadly than HOPA and also consider a home's current value. For more information about
the GSEs' guidelines and business practices, and how they may change, see our risk factor titled "Changes in the
business practices of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ("the GSEs"), federal legislation that changes their charters or a
restructuring of the GSEs could reduce our revenues or increase our losses."We are susceptible to disruptions
in the servicing of mortgage loans that we insure and we rely on third-party reporting for information
regarding the mortgage loans we insure.We depend on reliable, consistent third-party servicing of the loans that
we insure. An increase in delinquent loans may result in liquidity issues for servicers. When a mortgage loan that is
collateral for a mortgage-backed security ("MBS") becomes delinquent, the servicer is usually required to continue
to pay principal and interest to the MBS investors, generally for four months, even though the servicer is not
receiving payments from borrowers. This may cause liquidity issues, especially for non-bank servicers (who service
approximately 47% of the loans underlying our IIF as of December 31, 2023) because they do not have the same
sources of liquidity that bank servicers have.While there has been no disruption in our premium receipts through the
fourth quarter of 2023, servicers who experience future liquidity issues may be less likely to advance premiums to
us on policies covering delinquent loans or to remit premiums on policies covering loans that are not delinquent.
Our policies generally allow us to cancel coverage on loans that are not delinquent if the premiums are not paid
within a grace period. An increase in delinquent loans or a transfer of servicing resulting from liquidity issues, may
increase the operational burden on servicers, cause a disruption in the servicing of delinquent loans and reduce
servicers' abilities to undertake mitigation efforts that could help limit our losses.The information presented in this

                                                                                                        Page 10 of 16
                         MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

report and on our website with respect to the mortgage loans we insure is based on information reported to us by
third parties, including the servicers and originators of the mortgage loans, and information presented may be
subject to lapses or inaccuracies in reporting from such third parties. In many cases, we may not be aware that
information reported to us is incorrect until such time as a claim is made against us under the relevant insurance
policy. We do not consistently receive monthly policy status information from servicers for single premium policies,
and may not be aware that the mortgage loans insured by such policies have been repaid. We periodically attempt
to determine if coverage is still in force on such policies by asking the last servicer of record or through the periodic
reconciliation of loan information with certain servicers. It may be possible that our reports continue to reflect, as
active, policies on mortgage loans that have been repaid.Risk Factors Relating to Our Business GenerallyIf our
risk management programs are not effective in identifying, or adequate in controlling or mitigating, the
risks we face, or if the models used in our businesses are inaccurate, it could have a material adverse
impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our enterprise risk management
program, described in "Business - Our Products and Services - Risk Management" in Item 1 of our Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, may not be effective in identifying, or adequate in controlling
or mitigating, the risks we face in our business.We employ proprietary and third-party models for a wide range of
purposes, including the following: projecting losses, premiums, expenses, and returns; pricing products (through our
risk-based pricing system); determining the techniques used to underwrite insurance; estimating reserves;
evaluating risk; determining internal capital requirements; and performing stress testing. These models rely on
estimates, projections, and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and may not always operate as intended.
This can be especially true when extraordinary events occur, such as wars, periods of extreme inflation, pandemics,
or environmental disasters related to changing climatic conditions. In addition, our models are being continuously
updated over time. Changes in models or model assumptions could lead to material changes in our future
expectations, returns, or financial results. The models we employ are complex, which could increase our risk of
error in their design, implementation, or use. Also, the associated input data, assumptions, and calculations may not
always be correct or accurate and the controls we have in place to mitigate these risks may not be effective in all
cases. The risks related to our models may increase when we change assumptions, methodologies, or modeling
platforms. Moreover, we may use information we receive through enhancements to refine or otherwise change
existing assumptions and/or methodologies.Information technology system failures or interruptions may
materially impact our operations and/or adversely affect our financial results.We are heavily dependent on
our information technology systems to conduct our business. Our ability to efficiently operate our business depends
significantly on the reliability and capacity of our systems and technology. The failure of our systems and
technology, or our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, to operate effectively could affect our ability to
provide our products and services to customers, reduce efficiency, or cause delays in operations. Significant capital
investments might be required to remediate any such problems. We are also dependent on our ongoing
relationships with key technology providers, including provisioning of their products and technologies, and their
ability to support those products and technologies. The inability of these providers to successfully provide and
support those products could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.From time to time
we upgrade, automate or otherwise transform our information systems, business processes, risk-based pricing
system, and our system for evaluating risk. Certain information systems have been in place for a number of years
and it has become increasingly difficult to support their operation. The implementation of technological and
business process improvements, as well as their integration with customer and third-party systems when
applicable, is complex, expensive and time consuming. If we fail to timely and successfully implement and integrate
the new technology systems, if the third party providers upon which we are reliant do not perform as expected, if
our legacy systems fail to operate as required, or if the upgraded systems and/or transformed and automated
business processes do not operate as expected, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, business
prospects and results of operations.We could be materially adversely affected by a cybersecurity breach or
failure of information security controls.As part of our business, we maintain large amounts of confidential and
proprietary information both on our own servers and those of cloud computing services. This includes personal
information of consumers and our employees. Personal information is subject to an increasing number of federal
and state laws and regulations regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. Any failure
or perceived failure by us, or by the vendors with whom we share this information, to comply with such obligations
may result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties or customer
dissatisfaction. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a

                                                                                                        Page 11 of 16
                         MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

variety of sources, including by cyber attacks, such as those involving ransomware. We regularly defend against
threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system
failures and disruptions. Threats have the potential to jeopardize the information processed and stored in, and
transmitted through, our computer systems and networks and otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our
operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory
penalties or customer dissatisfaction. We could be similarly affected by threats against our vendors and/or third-
parties with whom we share information.Globally, attacks are expected to continue accelerating in both frequency
and sophistication with increasing use by actors of tools and techniques that may hinder the Company's ability to
identify, investigate and recover from incidents. Such attacks may also increase as a result of retaliation by threat
actors against actions taken by the U.S. and other countries in connection with wars and other global events. The
Company operates under a hybrid workforce model and such model may be more vulnerable to security
breaches.While we have information security policies and systems in place to secure our information technology
systems and to prevent unauthorized access to or disclosure of sensitive information, there can be no assurance
with respect to our systems and those of our third-party vendors that unauthorized access to the systems or
disclosure of the sensitive information, either through the actions of third parties or employees, will not occur. Due
to our reliance on information technology systems, including ours and those of our customers and third-party
service providers, and to the sensitivity of the information that we maintain, unauthorized access to the systems or
disclosure of the information could adversely affect our reputation, severely disrupt our operations, result in a loss of
business and expose us to material claims for damages and may require that we provide free credit monitoring
services to individuals affected by a security breach.Should we experience an unauthorized disclosure of
information or a cyber attack, including those involving ransomware, some of the costs we incur may not be
recoverable through insurance, or legal or other processes, and this may have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations.Our underwriting practices and themix of business we write affects our Minimum
Required Assets under the PMIERs, our premium yields and the likelihood of losses occurring.The Minimum
Required Assets under the PMIERs are, in part, a function of the direct risk-in-force and the risk profile of the loans
we insure, considering LTV ratio, credit score, vintage, Home Affordable Refinance Program ("HARP") status and
delinquency status; and whether the loans were insured under lender-paid mortgage insurance policies or other
policies that are not subject to automatic termination consistent with the Homeowners Protection Act requirements
for borrower-paid mortgage insurance. Therefore, if our direct risk-in-force increases through increases in NIW, or if
our mix of business changes to include loans with higher LTV ratios or lower FICO scores, for example, all other
things equal, we will be required to hold more Available Assets in order to maintain GSE eligibility.The percentage
of our NIW from all single premium policies was 4.0% in 2023. Beginning in 2012, the annual percentage of our
NIW from single policies has been as low as 4.3% in 2022 and as high as 20.4% in 2015. Depending on the actual
life of a single premium policy and its premium rate relative to that of a monthly premium policy, a single premium
policy may generate more or less premium than a monthly premium policy over its life.As discussed in our risk
factor titled "Reinsurance may not always be available or its cost may increase,"we have in place various QSR
transactions. Although the transactions reduce our premiums, they have a lesser impact on our overall results, as
losses ceded under the transactions reduce our losses incurred and the ceding commissions we receive reduce our
underwriting expenses. The effect of the QSR transactions on the various components of pre-tax income will vary
from period to period, depending on the level of ceded losses incurred. We also have in place various XOL
reinsurance transactions under which we cede premiums. Under the XOL reinsurance transactions, for the
respective reinsurance coverage periods, we retain the first layer of aggregate losses and the reinsurers provide
second layer coverage up to the outstanding reinsurance coverage amount.In addition to the effect of reinsurance
on our premiums, we expect a decline in our premium yield (net premiums earned divided by the average insurance
in force) over time as a large percentage of our current IIF is from book years with lower premium rates due a
decline in premium rates in recent years resulting from pricing competition, insuring mortgages with lower risk
characteristics, lower required capital, and certain policies undergoing premium rate resets on their ten-year
anniversaries. Refinance transactions on single premium policies benefit our premium yield due to the impact of
accelerated earned premium from cancellation prior to their estimated life. Recent low levels of refinance
transactions have reduced that benefit.Our ability to rescind insurance coverage became more limited for new
insurance written beginning in mid-2012, and it became further limited for new insurance written under our revised
master policy that became effective March 1, 2020. These limitations may result in higher losses paid than would be
the case under our previous master policies.From time to time, in response to market conditions, we change the

                                                                                                       Page 12 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

types of loans that we insure. We also may change our underwriting guidelines, including by agreeing with certain
approval recommendations from a GSE automated underwriting system. We also make exceptions to our
underwriting requirements on a loan-by-loan basis and for certain customer programs. Our underwriting
requirements are available on our website athttp://www.mgic.com/underwriting/index.html.Even when home prices
are stable or rising, mortgages with certain characteristics have higher probabilities of claims. As of December 31,
2023, mortgages with these characteristics in our primary risk in force included mortgages with LTV ratios greater
than 95% (16%), mortgages with borrowers having FICO scores below 680 (7%), including those with borrowers
having FICO scores of 620-679 (6%), mortgages with limited underwriting, including limited borrower
documentation (1%), and mortgages with borrowers having DTI ratios greater than 45% (or where no ratio is
available) (18%), each attribute is determined at the time of loan origination. Loans with more than one of these
attributes accounted for 5% of our primary risk in force as of December 31, 2023, and 4% of our primary risk in
force as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. When home prices increase, interest rates increase and/or
the percentage of our NIW from purchase transactions increases, our NIW on mortgages with higher LTV ratios and
higher DTI ratios may increase. Our NIW on mortgages with LTV ratios greater than 95% was 12% in 2023 and
2022. Our NIW on mortgages with DTI ratios greater than 45% was 26% in 2023 and 21% in 2022.From time to
time, we change the processes we use to underwrite loans. For example: we rely on information provided to us by
lenders that was obtained from certain of the GSEs' automated appraisal and income verification tools, which may
produce results that differ from the results that would have been determined using different methods; we accept
GSE appraisal waivers for certain refinance loans; and we accept GSE appraisal flexibilities that allow property
valuations in certain transactions to be based on appraisals that do not involve an onsite or interior inspection of the
property. Our acceptance of automated GSE appraisal and income verification tools, GSE appraisal waivers and
GSE appraisal flexibilities may affect our pricing and risk assessment. We also continue to further automate our
underwriting processes and it is possible that our automated processes result in our insuring loans that we would
not otherwise have insured under our prior processes.Approximately 71% of our NIW during 2023 and 72% of our
2022 NIW was originated under delegated underwriting programs pursuant to which the loan originators had
authority on our behalf to underwrite the loans for our mortgage insurance. For loans originated through a delegated
underwriting program, we depend on the originators' compliance with our guidelines and rely on the originators'
representations that the loans being insured satisfy the underwriting guidelines, eligibility criteria and other
requirements. While we have established systems and processes to monitor whether certain aspects of our
underwriting guidelines were being followed by the originators, such systems may not ensure that the guidelines
were being strictly followed at the time the loans were originated.The widespread use of risk-based pricing systems
by the private mortgage insurance industry (discussed in our risk factor titled"Competition or changes in our
relationships with our customers could reduce our revenues, reduce our premium yields and / or increase our
losses") makes it more difficult to compare our premium rates to those offered by our competitors. We may not be
aware of industry rate changes until we observe that our mix of new insurance written has changed and our mix
may fluctuate more as a result.If state or federal regulations or statutes are changed in ways that ease mortgage
lending standards and/or requirements, or if lenders seek ways to replace business in times of lower mortgage
originations, it is possible that more mortgage loans could be originated with higher risk characteristics than are
currently being originated, such as loans with lower FICO scores and higher DTI ratios. The focus of the new FHFA
leadership on increasing homeownership opportunities for borrowers is likely to have this effect. Lenders could
pressure mortgage insurers to insure such loans, which are expected to experience higher claim rates. Although we
attempt to incorporate these higher expected claim rates into our underwriting and pricing models, there can be no
assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will be adequate to compensate for
actual losses paid even under our current underwriting requirements.The premiums we charge may not be
adequate to compensate us for our liabilities for losses and as a result any inadequacy could materially
affect our financial condition and results of operations.When we set our premiums at policy issuance, we have
expectations regarding likely performance of the insured risks over the long term. Generally, we cannot cancel
mortgage insurance coverage or adjust renewal premiums during the life of a policy. As a result, higher than
anticipated claims generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by our non-
renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. Our premiums are subject to approval by state regulatory agencies,
which can delay or limit our ability to increase premiums on future policies. In addition, our customized rate plans
may delay our ability to increase premiums on future policies covered by such plans. The premiums we charge, the
investment income we earn and the amount of reinsurance we carry may not be adequate to compensate us for the

                                                                                                      Page 13 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to customers. An increase in the number or size of
claims, compared to what we anticipated when we set the premiums, could adversely affect our results of
operations or financial condition. Our premium rates are also based in part on the amount of capital we are required
to hold against the insured risk. If the amount of capital we are required to hold increases from the amount we were
required to hold when we set the premiums, our returns may be lower than we assumed. For a discussion of the
amount of capital we are required to hold, see our risk factor titled "We may not continue to meet the GSEs' private
mortgage insurer eligibility requirements and our returns may decrease if we are required to maintain more capital
in order to maintain our eligibility."Actual or perceived instability in the financial services industry or non-
performance by financial institutions or transactional counterparties could materially impact our
business.Limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect financial
institutions, transactional counterparties or other companies in the financial services industry with which we do
business, or concerns or rumors about the possibility of such events, have in the past and may in the future lead to
market-wide liquidity problems. Such conditions may negatively impact our results and/or financial condition. While
we are unable to predict the full impact of these conditions, they may lead to among other things: disruption to the
mortgage market, delayed access to deposits or other financial assets; losses of deposits in excess of federally-
insured levels; reduced access to, or increased costs associated with, funding sources and other credit
arrangements adequate to finance our current or future operations; increased regulatory pressure; the inability of
our counterparties and/or customers to meet their obligations to us; economic downturn; and rising unemployment
levels. Refer to our risk factor titled "Downturns in the domestic economy or declines in home prices may result in
more homeowners defaulting and our losses increasing, with a corresponding decrease in our returns" for more
information about the potential effects of a deterioration of economic conditions on our business.We routinely
execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and
dealers, investment banks, reinsurers, and our customers. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk and
losses in the event of a default by a counterparty or customer. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations.We rely on our management team and our business could
be harmed if we are unable to retain qualified personnel or successfully develop and/or recruit their
replacements.Our success depends, in part, on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our
management team and other key personnel. The unexpected departure of key personnel could adversely affect the
conduct of our business. In such event, we would be required to obtain other personnel to manage and operate our
business. In addition, we will be required to replace the knowledge and expertise of our aging workforce as our
workers retire. In either case, there can be no assurance that we would be able to develop or recruit suitable
replacements for the departing individuals; that replacements could be hired, if necessary, on terms that are
favorable to us; or that we can successfully transition such replacements in a timely manner. We currently have not
entered into any employment agreements with our officers or key personnel. Volatility or lack of performance in our
stock price may affect our ability to retain our key personnel or attract replacements should key personnel depart.
Without a properly skilled and experienced workforce, our costs, including productivity costs and costs to replace
employees may increase, and this could negatively impact our earnings.Competition or changes in our
relationships with our customers could reduce our revenues, reduce our premium yields and / or increase
our losses.The private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive and is expected to remain so. We believe
we currently compete with other private mortgage insurers based on premium rates, underwriting requirements,
financial strength (including based on credit or financial strength ratings), customer relationships, name recognition,
reputation, strength of management teams and field organizations, the ancillary products and services provided to
lenders, and the effective use of technology and innovation in the delivery and servicing of our mortgage insurance
products.Our relationships with our customers, which may affect the amount of our NIW, could be adversely
affected by a variety of factors, including if our premium rates are higher than those of our competitors, our
underwriting requirements are more restrictive than those of our competitors, our customers are dissatisfied with
our claims-paying practices (including insurance policy rescissions and claim curtailments), or the availability of
alternatives to mortgage insurance.In recent years, the industry has materially reduced its use of standard rate
cards, which were fairly consistent among competitors, and correspondingly increased its use of (i) pricing systems
that use a spectrum of filed rates to allow for formulaic, risk-based pricing based on multiple attributes that may be
quickly adjusted within certain parameters, and (ii) customized rate plans. The widespread use of risk-based pricing
systems by the private mortgage insurance industry makes it more difficult to compare our rates to those offered by
our competitors. We may not be aware of industry rate changes until we observe that our volume of NIW has

                                                                                                       Page 14 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

changed. In addition, business under customized rate plans is awarded by certain customers for only limited
periods of time. As a result, our NIW may fluctuate more than it had in the past. Failure to maintain our business
relationships and business volumes with our largest customers could materially impact our business. Regarding the
concentration of our new business, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 37% and 33% in the twelve
months ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.We monitor various competitive and
economic factors while seeking to balance both profitability and market share considerations in developing our
pricing strategies. Our premium yield is expected to decline over time as older insurance policies with premium
rates that are generally higher run off and new insurance policies with premium rates that are generally lower
remain on our books.Certain of our competitors have access to capital at a lower cost than we do (including,
through off-shore intercompany reinsurance vehicles, which have tax advantages that may increase if U.S.
corporate income taxes increase). As a result, they may be able to achieve higher after-tax rates of return on their
NIW compared to us, which could allow them to leverage reduced premium rates to gain market share, and they
may be better positioned to compete outside of traditional mortgage insurance, including by participating in
alternative forms of credit enhancement pursued by the GSEs discussed in our risk factor titled"The amount of
insurance we write could be adversely affected if lenders and investors select alternatives to private mortgage
insurance or are unable to obtain capital relief for mortgage insurance."Adverse rating agency actions could
have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Financial
strength ratings, which various rating agencies publish as independent opinions of an insurer's financial strength
and ability to meet ongoing insurance and contract obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our
mortgage insurance coverage and our competitive position. PMIERs requires approved insurers to maintain at least
one rating with a rating agency acceptable to the respective GSEs. Downgrades in our financial strength ratings
could materially affect our business and results of operations, including in the ways described below:Our failure to
maintain a rating acceptable to the GSEs could impact our eligibility as an approved insurer under PMIERs.A
downgrade in our financial strength ratings could result in increased scrutiny of our financial condition by the GSEs
and/or our customers, potentially resulting in a decrease in the amount of our NIW.If we are unable to compete
effectively in the current or any future markets as a result of the financial strength ratings assigned to our insurance
subsidiaries, our future NIW could be negatively affected.Our ability to participate in the non-GSE residential
mortgage-backed securities market (the size of which has been limited since 2008, but may grow in the future),
could depend on our ability to maintain and improve our investment grade ratings for our insurance subsidiaries.
We could be competitively disadvantaged with some market participants because the financial strength ratings of
our insurance subsidiaries are lower than those of some competitors. MGIC's financial strength rating from A.M.
Best is A- (with a positive outlook), from Moody's is A3 (with a stable outlook) and from Standard & Poor's is A-
(with a stable outlook).Financial strength ratings may also play a greater role if the GSEs no longer operate in their
current capacities, for example, due to legislative or regulatory action. In addition, although the PMIERs do not
require minimum financial strength ratings, the GSEs consider financial strength ratings to be important when using
forms of credit enhancement other than traditional mortgage insurance, as discussed in our risk factor titled "The
amount of insurance we write could be adversely affected if lenders and investors select alternatives to private
mortgage insurance or are unable to obtain capital relief for mortgage insurance." The final GSE capital framework
provides more capital credit for transactions with higher rated counterparties, as well as those who are diversified.
Although we are currently unaware of a direct impact on MGIC, this could potentially become a competitive
disadvantage in the future.Downgrades to our ratings or the ratings of our mortgage insurance subsidiary could
adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, and access to capital markets.We are subject to the risk of legal
proceedings.We operate in a highly regulated industry that is subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory
proceedings, including related to our claims paying practices. From time to time, we are a party to material litigation
and are also subject to legal and regulatory claims, assertions, actions, reviews, audits, inquiries and investigations.
Additional lawsuits, legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries or other matters may arise in the future. The
outcome of future legal and regulatory proceedings, inquiries or other matters could result in adverse judgments,
settlements, fines, injunctions, restitutions or other relief which could require significant expenditures or have a
material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. See our risk factor
titled "We are subject to comprehensive regulation and other requirements, which we may fail to satisfy"for
additional information about risks related to government enforcement actions.From time to time, we are involved in
disputes and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. In our opinion, based on the facts known at this
time, the ultimate resolution of these ordinary course disputes and legal proceedings will not have a material

                                                                                                        Page 15 of 16
                         MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Under ASC 450-20, until a loss associated with
settlement discussions or legal proceedings becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated, we do not accrue
an estimated loss. When we determine that a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, we record our best
estimate of our probable loss. In those cases, until settlement negotiations or legal proceedings are concluded it is
possible that we will record an additional loss.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage risks in
our investment portfolio.Our investment portfolio is an important source of revenue and is our primary source of
claims paying resources. Although our investment portfolio consists mostly of highly-rated fixed income
investments, our investment portfolio is affected by general economic conditions and tax policy, which may
adversely affect the markets for credit and interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of
investor participation in these markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and credit spreads and, consequently,
the value of our fixed income securities. Prevailing market rates have increased for various reasons, including
inflationary pressures, which has reduced the fair value of our investment portfolio holdings relative to their
amortized cost. The value of our investment portfolio may also be adversely affected by ratings downgrades,
increased bankruptcies, and credit spreads widening. In addition, the collectability and valuation of our municipal
bond portfolio may be adversely affected by budget deficits, and declining tax bases and revenues experienced by
state and local municipalities. Our investment portfolio also includes commercial mortgage-backed securities,
collateralized loan obligations, and asset-backed securities, which could be adversely affected by declines in real
estate valuations, increases in unemployment, geopolitical risks and/or financial market disruption, including more
restrictive lending conditions and a heightened collection risk on the underlying loans. As a result of these matters,
we may not achieve our investment objectives and a reduction in the market value of our investments could have
an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.We carry certain financial instruments
at fair value and disclose the fair value of all financial instruments. Valuations use inputs and assumptions that are
not always observable or may require estimation; valuation methods may be complex and may also require
estimation, thereby resulting in values that are less certain and may vary significantly from the value at which the
investments may be ultimately sold. For additional information about the methodologies, estimates and
assumptions we use in determining the fair value of our investments refer to Note 3 of Item 8 in Part II our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 - "Fair Value Measurements."Federal budget deficit
concerns and the potential for political conflict over the U.S. government's debt limit may increase the possibility of
a default by the U.S. government on its debt obligations, related credit-rating downgrades, or an economic
recession in the United States. Many of our investment securities are issued by the U.S. government and
government agencies and sponsored entities. As a result of uncertain domestic political conditions, including
potential future federal government shutdowns, the possibility of the federal government defaulting on its obligations
due to debt ceiling limitations or other unresolved political issues, investments in financial instruments issued or
guaranteed by the federal government pose liquidity risks. Any potential downgrades by rating agencies in long-
term sovereign credit ratings, as well as sovereign debt issues facing the governments of other countries, could
have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions worldwide.For the significant portion
of our investment portfolio that is held by MGIC, to receive full capital credit under insurance regulatory
requirements and under the PMIERs, we generally are limited to investing in investment grade fixed income
securities whose yields reflect their lower credit risk profile. Our investment income depends upon the size of the
portfolio and its reinvestment at prevailing interest rates. A prolonged period of low investment yields would have an
adverse impact on our investment income as would a decrease in the size of the portfolio.We structure our
investment portfolio to satisfy our expected liabilities, including claim payments in our mortgage insurance business.
If we underestimate our liabilities or improperly structure our investments to meet these liabilities, we could have
unexpected losses resulting from the forced liquidation of fixed income investments before their maturity, which
could adversely affect our results of operations.Our holding company debt obligations are material.At
December 31, 2023, we had approximately $918 million in cash and investments at our holding company and our
holding company's long-term debt obligations were $650 million in aggregate principal amount. Annual debt service
on the long-term debt obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2023, is approximately $34 million.The long-term
debt obligations are owed by our holding company, MGIC Investment Corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The
payment of dividends from MGIC is the principal source of our holding company cash inflow. Other sources of
holding company cash inflow include investment income and raising capital in the public markets. The payment of
dividends on our common shares in the future depends largely on the earnings and cash flows of MGIC, and is
additionally subject to regulatory approval as described below. Although MGIC holds assets in excess of its

                                                                                                     Page 16 of 16
                        MGIC Investment Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter 2023 Results

minimum statutory capital requirements and its PMIERs financial requirements, the ability of MGIC to pay dividends
is restricted by insurance regulation. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed "extraordinary"
and may not be paid if disapproved by the OCI. In 2024, MGIC can pay $64 million of ordinary dividends without
OCI approval, before taking into consideration dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. A dividend is
extraordinary when the proposed dividend amount plus dividends paid in the last twelve months from the dividend
payment date exceed the ordinary dividend level. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, MGIC paid $600
million in dividends to the holding company. Future dividend payments from MGIC to the holding company will be
determined in consultation with the board of directors, and after considering any updated estimates about our
business.If any capital contributions to our subsidiaries are required, such contributions would decrease our holding
company cash and investments. Your ownership in our company may be diluted by additional capital that we
raise.As noted above under our risk factor titled"We may not continue to meet the GSEs' private mortgage insurer
eligibility requirements and our returns may decrease if we are required to maintain more capital in order to
maintain our eligibility,"although we are currently in compliance with the requirements of the PMIERs, there can be
no assurance that we would not seek to issue additional debt capital or to raise additional equity or equity-linked
capital to manage our capital position under the PMIERs or for other purposes. Any future issuance of equity
securities may dilute your ownership interest in our company. In addition, the market price of our common stock
could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares or similar securities in the market or the perception
that such sales could occur.The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it
difficult for holders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive.The market price
for our common stock may fluctuate significantly. In addition to the risk factors described herein, the following
factors may have an adverse impact on the market price for our common stock: changes in general conditions in
the economy, the mortgage insurance industry or the financial stability of markets and financial services industry;
announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions or strategic initiatives; our actual or anticipated quarterly
and annual operating results; changes in expectations of future financial performance (including incurred losses on
our insurance in force); changes in estimates of securities analysts or rating agencies; actual or anticipated
changes in our share repurchase program or dividends; changes in operating performance or market valuation of
companies in the mortgage insurance industry; the addition or departure of key personnel; changes in tax law; and
adverse press or news announcements affecting us or the industry. In addition, ownership by certain types of
investors may affect the market price and trading volume of our common stock. For example, ownership in our
common stock by investors such as index funds and exchange-traded funds can affect the stock's price when those
investors must purchase or sell our common stock because the investors have experienced significant cash inflows
or outflows, the index to which our common stock belongs has been rebalanced, or our common stock is added to
and/or removed from an index (due to changes in our market capitalization, for example).                View original
content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mgic-investment-corporation-reports-fourth-quarter-2023-
results-302049730.htmlSOURCE MGIC Investment Corporation


Load-Date: January 31, 2024


  
