

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 2
  US Patent Issued on Jan. 30 for "Method for ai and cloud network enhanced electric subscriber control of billing
                               and system loads, with contingency backup" ( Co....




 US Patent Issued on Jan. 30 for "Method for ai and cloud network enhanced
  electric subscriber control of billing and system loads, with contingency
                       backup" (Connecticut Inventors)
                                                   US Fed News
 January 31, 2024 Wednesday GENERAL_EDIT_CORRECTION ERROR Document ID 144 Has error Validate old
                   format failed - Input Date Invalid - 00:47: Unparseable date: "00:47" EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 531 words
Dateline: ALEXANDRIA, Va.

Body


ALEXANDRIA, Va., Jan. 31 -- United States Patent no. 11,887,171, issued on Jan. 30.

"Method for ai and cloud network enhanced electric subscriber control of billing and system loads, with contingency
backup" was invented by Joseph J. Bango (New Haven, Conn.) and Michael E. Dziekan (Bethany, Conn.).
According to the abstract* released by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office: "A system for localized subscriber
control of electric provider billing comprising: a digital assistant in communication with powerline sensors, the
powerline sensors configured to detect weather, natural disaster, or other event that compromises the electric grid
in a given predetermined region, a smart utility box in operational communication with a subscriber's utility
connection and in communication with the digital assistant, wherein the smart utility box is configured to disconnect
from a utility and stop incurring charges from the utility if the smart utility box determines that utility prices may
exceed a threshold value. A system of reCAPTCHA comprising: a series of images showing ice on a powerline, or
ice on a powerline, fire on or near a powerline, or other condition that can lead to failure of a powerline; and a
screen to allow users to select the image showing ice on a powerline, or ice on a powerline, fire on or near a
powerline, or other condition that can lead to failure of a powerline which will assist a power system AI deep
learning.

A power transmission line monitor comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium, where the medium
includes a set of instructions stored thereon that when accessed by a processor enable the processor to perform a
method of geolocation awareness for a digital assistant, the method comprising: configuring the power transmission
line monitor to be in communication with a network; configuring the power transmission line monitor to be in
communication with a remote server via the network; configuring the power transmission line monitor to be in
communication with a cloud computing system via the remote server; configuring the power transmission line
monitor to be in communication with the internet such that the present cost of electricity for a given user defined
geographical service area is obtained, and the current cost of electric service in the predefined geographical

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
  US Patent Issued on Jan. 30 for "Method for ai and cloud network enhanced electric subscriber control of billing
                               and system loads, with contingency backup" ( Co....

location reported, preferably using bluetooth, email, or a digital assistant located in a residence or a business via
the cloud computing system; monitoring temperature, icing of the powerline, electric current in a power transmission
line, and three-axis shock above a threshold level, transmitting the temperature, icing condition, electric current, and
three-axis shock information to the remote server." The patent was filed on March 8, 2021, under Application No.
17/195,100.       *For    further   information,    including   images,    charts     and    tables,    please      visit:
http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-
bool.html&r=1&f=G&l=50&co1=AND&d=PTXT&s1=11887171&OS=11887171&RS=11887171 For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com


Load-Date: January 31, 2024


  
