

                                                                            Page 1 of 2
         VP URGES CORPORATE LEADERS TO HANDHOLD INSTITUTIONS TO PROMOTE RANDD IN
                                      TECHNOLOGY




     VP URGES CORPORATE LEADERS TO HANDHOLD INSTITUTIONS TO
                 PROMOTE RANDD IN TECHNOLOGY
                                               States News Service
                                            January 15, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 695 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: NEW DELHI, India

Body


The following information was released by the Government of India:

Looking for a day when IMD can predict weather condition in Parliament for presiding officers- VP

Our technological progress is an important mechanism of soft diplomacy, says the Vice-President

Extending climate services to other countries strengthens regional resilience and reinforces India's commitment as
a responsible global player- VP

IMD must embrace and utilise cutting-edge technology for the benefit of our nation, says VP

Vice-President addresses inaugural ceremony of 150th year celebrations of Indian Meteorological Department

Posted On: 15 JAN 2024 4:53PM by PIB Delhi

The Vice-President of India, Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar today made a clarion call to the corporate leaders to handhold
institutions to promote research and development with focus on disruptive technologies. Drawing attention to the
key role played by corporates in initiating and funding research in developed countries, the Vice-President
emphasised on the need for leveraging disruptive technologies for disaster risk reduction and management.

Addressing the inaugural ceremony of celebrations marking 150 years of India Meteorological Department (IMD) at
VigyanBhawan today, the Vice-President elaborated on the significance of IMD as "a safety net protecting India's
national interest". Lauding the precision and accuracy of IMD's forecasts, Shri Dhankharhumorously remarked, "I'm
looking for a day when IMD can predict what will be the weather condition in the two Houses of Parliament for the
presiding officers."

Underlining The global influence of IMD, the Vice-President Stated that India's neighbours also rely on IMD's
expertise as evidenced during cyclone Mocha and by the praise extended by Bangladesh and Myanmar to India, in
its aftermath.Highlighting technological progress as a key soft diplomacy tool, Shri Dhankharnotedhow economic

                                                                           Page 2 of 2
        VP URGES CORPORATE LEADERS TO HANDHOLD INSTITUTIONS TO PROMOTE RANDD IN
                                     TECHNOLOGY

and technological progress by a nation go on to define international relationships. "By extending our weather and
climate services to our neighbours and other countries, we not only strengthen regional resilience but also reinforce
India's commitment of being a responsible global player,", he added.

Acknowledging The affirmative role played by IMDin every facet of national life, "from farmers tilling the land to
jawans guarding the borders", the Vice-President made note of IMD's contributions in domains as diverse as
enhancing agricultural incomes, ensuring COVID management and facilitating successful organisation of G20
Summit. Shri Dhankharalso made note of the synergism between IMD and the Indian Space Research Organisation
(ISRO), which is bolstering IMD's position as "one of the front-line meteorological departments in the world."

Highlighting the rising threat of climate change, Shri Dhankharstressed that IMD must remain at the forefront of
disaster reduction,by harvesting technology through public private partnerships and research collaborations in
order to mitigate the impact of natural disasters.The Vice-President also commended IMD's contribution to global
safety and economic development through its role as Regional and Global Centres for weather and climate
forecasting.

Affirming Bharat's prominent position among the nations advancing disruptive technologies,the Vice-President
recognised the imperative of harnessing Quantum Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Big
Data to strengthen the capabilities of national institutions. "IMD has a crucial role to play in embracing and utilizing
cutting-edge technology for the benefit of our nation," he said. He further urged IMD to consistently adoptand
integrate innovations in order to "solidify its position as a global leader."

During the event, the Vice-President released the theme song of IMD. He also launched several other initiatives,
including the Decision Support System, Panchayat MausamSeva, National Framework of Climate Services and the
Mobile App of the department.

Union Minister for Earth Sciences, Shri KirenRijiju, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, Dr. M Ravichandran,
Director General, IMD, Dr. M. Mohapatra and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.


Load-Date: January 15, 2024


  
