

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
  University of Greenwich : pound sterling9 Million Research England Funding Will Make UK Computer Modelling
                                                 Unique in the World




University of Greenwich: pound sterling9 Million Research England Funding
           Will Make UK Computer Modelling Unique in the World
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          January 20, 2024 Saturday 1:17 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 691 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: LONDON, England

Body


(TNSres) -- The University of Greenwich issued the following news:

***

The UK to become world-leader in high-performance computer modelling used to predict and tackle rapidly
emerging societal and environmental challenges.

***

Research England announced Expanding Excellence in England (E3) funding of pound sterling9 million for the
University of Greenwich, following a competitive bidding process. The grant will fund the amalgamation and
expansion of two award-winning multidisciplinary teams at the university over the next five years. The Fire Safety
Engineering Group (FSEG), led by Prof Ed Galea, and the Computational Science & Engineering Group (CSEG),
led by Prof Koulis Pericleous and Associate Prof Andrew Kao, have a long track record of impactful research
excellence in fire safety, evacuation, computational science and engineering. Their mathematical models,
computational simulations and bespoke software harness the expertise of multidisciplinary teams, reflecting the fact
that societal challenges are rarely solved through single discipline research.

Research England's independent assessment panel emphasised how impressed they were with the university's fire
safety research and how important it is. The E3 expansion will take the teams' world-leading expertise to the next
level by utilising High-Performance Computing (HPC) enhanced with Artificial Intelligence (AI), Virtual Reality
(VR), and Mixed Reality (MR) for large-scale, interactive real-time simulations. The research themes reflect UK and
international priorities, such as the need to tackle the ever-present and growing concerns with physical security, to
enhance urban resilience to natural and anthropogenic disasters, to promote energy security and sustainable
manufacturing, and to mitigate the impact of climate change.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
  University of Greenwich : pound sterling9 Million Research England Funding Will Make UK Computer Modelling
                                                 Unique in the World

Prof Ed Galea, director of the Fire Safety Engineering Group said:

'The E3 funding will generate the scale and pace for a quantum leap in UK computer modelling capacity and
capability that will be unique in the world. It will expand the scale and complexity of the digital worlds we can create
and the real-world challenges we can simulate within them. High-Performance Computing enhanced with Artificial
Intelligence and Virtual and Mixed Reality will drive more effective solutions to real world problems, such as more
efficient mitigation strategies for urban-scale natural and anthropogenic disasters, enhanced training for first
responders in disaster response, and the design of safer buildings through enhanced real-time two-way coupling of
fire and evacuation modelling.

'We are grateful to Research England and for the significant support for our proposal from local (London/
Southeast), national, and international collaborators and partners in industry, government and the public sector,
who share our excitement for the potential highlighted in our proposal.'

***

Professor Jane Harrington, Vice-Chancellor and CEO of the University of Greenwich said:

'The University of Greenwich is committed to world class research and innovation that tackles real world challenges
and has tangible impact. The E3 grant demonstrates how strategic funding for our excellent research teams can
unlock significant potential to increase their impact on society and the environment. This value extends beyond our
immediate surroundings,reaching students, local communities, business, industry, government and public services
nationally and around the world.'

***

Professor Andrew Westby, Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Greenwich said:

"As the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange, I am delighted by the Research England
funding. Greenwich is home to some the finest minds working on projects to make improvements to people's
everyday life and this grant is further proof that we are making a difference. Congratulations to the Greenwich staff
involved and I look forward to watching the project develop."

***

Original text here: https://www.gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/9-million-research-england-funding-will-make-uk-
computer-modelling-unique-in-the-world

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8446797 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 20, 2024


  
