

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
                               Acronis Joins Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA)




            Acronis Joins Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA)
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                            February 1, 2024 Thursday 5:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: ADVISORY
Length: 749 words

Body


SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland, Feb. 01, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Acronis, a leading provider of cyber
protection, today announced it has become a member of the Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA), an
ecosystem of independent software vendors (ISV) and managed security service providers (MSSP). MISA
members have integrated their solutions with Microsoft security technology to build a better defense against a world
of increasing cybersecurity threats.

Acronis advocates for natively integrated applications and services commonly used by service providers to boost
productivity and efficiency. Acronis Cyber Protect Cloud is an advanced single, integrated solution that reduces
complexity and provides unmatched integrated protection from ever-evolving cyber threats. It also encompasses
the Acronis Ecosystem of more than 200 integrations with third-party vendors.

"Over 20,000 MSPs use Acronis to protect and manage their customers' endpoints, applications, and data," said
Gaidar Magdanurov, President at Acronis. "Most of them are Microsoft CSP Direct or Indirect Resellers who seek
synergies between Microsoft, Acronis, and other vendors to meet customer security and data resiliency
requirements. With today’s announcement of Acronis’ Cyber Cloud Protect integrated with Microsoft Intune, MSPs
can now manage customer endpoints with Microsoft Intune and deploy Acronis managed security and backup
services quickly and easily to their customers, all from a single agent and interface.”

The integration between Acronis Cyber Protect Cloud and Microsoft Intune allows partners to deploy Acronis agents
and apply protection plans based on Microsoft Entra ID groups through Microsoft Intune, which adheres to Microsoft
best practices. Acronis partners can now seamlessly explore integration options directly through the MISA partner
catalog, aiming to provide MSPs with a more accessible experience for efficiently enabling an integrated
ecosystem.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                           Acronis Joins Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA)

Acronis’ collaboration with MISA demonstrates the quality of its integration with Microsoft Intune, showcasing a
long-term commitment to the Microsoft relationship. MISA enables close collaboration between members with the
shared goal of improving customer security. Each new member brings valuable expertise, making the association
more effective as it expands. Joining this ecosystem reinforces Acronis’ dedication to cybersecurity.

“The Microsoft Intelligent Security Association has grown into a vibrant ecosystem comprised of the most reliable
and trusted security software vendors across the globe,” said Maria Thomson, Director, Microsoft Intelligent
Security Association. “Our members, like Acronis, share Microsoft’s commitment to collaboration within the
cybersecurity community to improve our customers’ ability to predict, detect, and respond to security threats faster.”

Partners who are interested in learning more, visit the MISA Partner Catalog: Microsoft Intelligent Security
Association.

About Acronis Acronis unifies data protection and cybersecurity to deliver integrated, automated cyber protection
that solves the safety, accessibility, privacy, authenticity, and security (SAPAS) challenges of the modern digital
world. With flexible deployment models that fit the demands of service providers and IT professionals, Acronis
provides superior cyber protection for data, applications, and systems with innovative next-generation antivirus,
backup, disaster recovery, and endpoint protection management solutions powered by AI. With advanced anti-
malware powered by cutting-edge machine intelligence and blockchain-based data authentication technologies,
Acronis protects any environment - from cloud to hybrid to on-premises - at a low and predictable cost.

Acronis is a Swiss company, founded in Singapore. Celebrating two decades of innovation, Acronis has 1,800+
employees in 45 locations. Acronis Cyber Protect solution is available in 26 languages in over 150 countries and is
used by 20,000+ service providers to protect over 750,000 businesses.

Acronis Media Contact:Julia CarfagnoJulia.Carfagno@acronis.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                          at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/7595d8dc-9682-4321-adf7-10c6682c0a14

Acronis Joins Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA)

Acronis today announced it has become a member of the Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA), an
ecosystem of independent software vendors (ISV) and managed security service providers (MSSP).


Load-Date: February 1, 2024


  
