

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
   ExaGrid's Tiered Backup Storage Named "Data Backup Solution of the Year" in 5th Annual Data Breakthrough
                          Awards Program Prestigious International Awards Program....




ExaGrid's Tiered Backup Storage Named "Data Backup Solution of the Year"
in 5th Annual Data Breakthrough Awards Program; Prestigious International
  Awards Program Recognizes Outstanding Data Technology Products and
                               Companies
                                                   Business Wire
                                       April 16, 2024 Tuesday 12:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1110 words
Dateline: MARLBOROUGH, Mass.

Body


ExaGrid ®, the industry's only Tiered Backup Storage solution with Retention Time-Lock that includes a non-
network-facing tier (creating a tiered air gap), delayed deletes and immutability for ransomware recovery, today
announced that its Tiered Backup Storage has been selected as winner of the "Data Backup Solution of the Year"
award in the 5th annual Data Breakthrough Awards program conducted by Data Breakthrough , an independent
market intelligence organization that recognizes the top companies, technologies and products in the global data
technology market today.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.             View        the      full     release       here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240416869303/en/

ExaGrid's breakthrough Tiered Backup Storage provides comprehensive security, ransomware recovery, multiple
disaster recovery options, and more. The solution writes backups directly to a disk-cache Landing Zone, avoiding
inline processing and ensuring the highest level of backup performance, resulting in a short backup window.
Adaptive Deduplication performs deduplication and replication in parallel with backups for a strong recovery point
(RPO). As data is being deduplicated to the Repository Tier, it can also be replicated to a second data center site or
to the public cloud for disaster recovery (DR). ExaGrid offers the only two-tiered backup storage approach with
comprehensive security.

ExaGrid's scale-out architecture includes full appliances and ensures a fixed-length backup window as data grows.
The appliances contain disk, processing power, memory, and bandwidth and additional appliances can be added.
The system scales linearly, maintaining a fixed-length backup window and customers only pay for what they need.
Data is deduplicated into the non-network-facing Repository Tier with automatic load balancing and global
deduplication across all repositories.

Additionally, ExaGrid has recently added three new appliance models to its product line: the EX54, EX84, and
EX189, which offer the largest single scale-out system storage capacity for any backup storage on the market, and
announced that all ExaGrid appliances are available in 2U models, offering rack space efficiency.

                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
  ExaGrid's Tiered Backup Storage Named "Data Backup Solution of the Year" in 5th Annual Data Breakthrough
                         Awards Program Prestigious International Awards Program....

"We're grateful for this industry recognition in the 2024 Data Breakthrough Awards program. When we realized that
no vendor was building storage that optimizes backup, we built our Tiered Backup Storage specifically to improve
backup performance, restore performance, and scalability as data grows," said Bill Andrews, President and CEO of
ExaGrid. "The economics of backup are just as important as performance. We're proud to be the largest
independent backup storage vendor and we will continue to innovate our solution with the goal of eliminating all of
the challenges that organizations face when it comes to backups."

The annual Data Breakthrough Awards is the premier awards program founded to recognize the data technology
innovators, leaders and visionaries from around the world in a range of categories, including DataOps, Data
Analytics, AI, Business Intelligence, Data Privacy, Data Storage and many more. The 5th annual Data
Breakthrough Award program attracted thousands of nominations from across the globe.

"ExaGrid Backup Storage delivers fast backup ingest and restore performance, comprehensive security features, a
non-network-facing tier and a scale-out architecture along with industry-leading customer support. Organizations
face an incredible amount of issues when it comes to backup, including deduplication which so often negatively
impacts backup and restore performance," said Steve Johansson, Managing Director, Data Breakthrough.
"ExaGrid's unique architecture, its constant innovation, and its dedication to offering the best backup storage
solution, sets ExaGrid Tiered Backup Storage apart; we're thrilled to award them with our 2024 'Data Backup
Solution of the Year!' designation."

About ExaGrid

ExaGrid provides Tiered Backup Storage with a unique disk-cache Landing Zone, long-term retention repository,
and scale-out architecture. ExaGrid's Landing Zone provides for the fastest backups, restores, and instant VM
recoveries. The Repository Tier offers the lowest cost for long-term retention. ExaGrid's scale-out architecture
includes full appliances and ensures a fixed-length backup window as data grows, eliminating expensive forklift
upgrades and product obsolescence. ExaGrid offers the only two-tiered backup storage approach with a non-
network-facing tier, delayed deletes, and immutable objects to recover from ransomware attacks.

ExaGrid has physical sales and pre-sales systems engineers in the following countries: Argentina, Australia,
Benelux, Brazil, Canada, Chile, CIS, Colombia, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Mexico, Nordics, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain,
Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, and other regions.

Visit us at exagrid.com or connect with us on LinkedIn . See what our customers have to say about their own
ExaGrid experiences and learn why they now spend significantly less time on backup storage in our customer
success stories . ExaGrid is proud of our +81 NPS score!

ExaGrid is a registered trademark of ExaGrid Systems, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective
holders.

About Data Breakthrough

Part of the Tech Breakthrough organization, a leading global provider of market intelligence and recognition
platforms for technology innovation and leadership, the Data Breakthrough Awards program is devoted to honoring
innovation and market disruption in data technologies, services, companies and products. The global Data
Breakthrough Awards program provides a forum for public recognition around the achievements of data companies
and solutions in categories including data analytics, management, infrastructure and hardware, storage, Business
Intelligence and more. For more information visit DataBreakthroughAwards.com .

Tech Breakthrough LLC does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in our recognition programs, and
does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with award designations. Tech Breakthrough LLC
recognition consists of the opinions of the Tech Breakthrough LLC organization and should not be construed as

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
  ExaGrid's Tiered Backup Storage Named "Data Backup Solution of the Year" in 5th Annual Data Breakthrough
                         Awards Program Prestigious International Awards Program....

statements of fact. Tech Breakthrough LLC disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this
recognition program, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240416869303/en/


CONTACT: Mary Domenichelli
ExaGrid

mdomenichelli@exagrid.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: April 16, 2024


  
