

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                             Forecasters use AI to broaden reach of extreme weather warnings




         Forecasters use AI to broaden reach of extreme weather warnings
                                                         Greenwire
                                                  January 30, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 Politico LLC All Rights Reserved

Section: TODAY'S STORIES; Vol. 10; No. 9
Length: 820 words

Body


By Rob Hotakainen The National Weather Service plans to use artificial intelligence to translate its weather
warnings and alerts into 10 languages in the next few years. "I'm really tired of people not getting the information,
losing their lives, because they don't speak the language - let's fix that," said NWS Director Ken Graham,
highlighting the plan Monday at a town hall during the annual meeting of the American Meteorological Society in
Baltimore. The issue prompted widespread concern when Hurricane Ida ravaged New York City and the
northeastern United States on Sept. 1, 2021, causing at least 91 deaths in nine states, including 18 people who
died in the city from flash flooding.

Local officials told NWS that most of the deaths took place in neighborhoods in Queens and Brooklyn, where 40 to
80 percent of all households speak languages other than English or Spanish. Some members of Congress
registered similar complaints when Hurricane Ian devastated Florida in September of 2022, saying too many non-
English-speaking citizens were caught off guard. Graham, who took over as the NWS director in June 2022, said
the weather service is already conducting experiments with AI to broaden its reach. For starters, NWS is using AI
hardware to translate its warnings and alerts into Spanish and simplified Chinese. The agency also has plans in the
works to add Samoan and Vietnamese next. "We're going to take the top 10 languages spoken in this country, and
we're going to have them translated over the next three to five years," he said. NOAA Administrator Rick Spinrad,
who oversees NWS, said the work is part of the agency's "equity lens." "In a country like the United States, we need
to make sure we're getting out warnings, watches, supportive information in a variety of languages," he told the
audience. While NWS did not specify all of the new languages that will be translated, New York Attorney General
Letitia James (D) offered some suggestions in a letter she sent to NWS in 2022. She said the list should include
languages commonly spoken by New Yorkers with limited English proficiency, including both traditional and
simplified Chinese, Russian, French Creole, Bengali, and Korean. In a December report by helping forecasters
provide faster and more accurate information to give the public more advance warning of extreme weather. As part
of the first phase of its work, NWS in October launched an experimental language-translation website and said it
would accept public comments on the project until Sept. 29, 2024. When NWS first rolled out the plan, Graham said
the language-translation project "will improve our service equity to traditionally underserved and vulnerable
populations that have limited English proficiency." NWS said it had provided manual translations of weather
forecasts and warnings in Spanish for the past 30 years, but it's now hoping to do the work more quickly with AI. To
do the translations, NWS is working with Lilt, a machine-learning company that specializes in language models.
NWS scientists have trained the Lilt model in weather terminology. "We've been training the Spanish model for
three years now, and it's remarkable how quickly Lilt learned NWS and weather terminology and how few

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                         Forecasters use AI to broaden reach of extreme weather warnings

corrections to the translations have been needed," said Monica Bozeman, automated language translation lead with
NWS. "Manually translating our forecasts is labor intensive and not sustainable." Bozeman said that by using the AI
model, Spanish forecasters were able to reduce the time needed to translate hurricane warnings and alerts from
one hour to less than 10 minutes. "We look forward to receiving community feedback to ensure that the translations
are culturally meaningful and understandable," she said. Extreme weather is a big topic for members of the
American Meteorological Society, who are in Baltimore this week for their 104th annual meeting. At the town hall
Monday, Steven Thur, NOAA's assistant administrator for research, said that 90 percent of the more than 3,100
counties in the United States had experienced a weather or climate disaster in the last 10 years. "Our changing
climate is going to be the largest economic, environmental and social issue in the next half-century," he said. "It is a
societal challenge that will touch all of the others, where we live, the kinds of jobs available to us, whether the
infrastructure we have today will serve our needs in the future." NWS said the House Appropriations Committee
backed the language-translation project as part of the agency's budget for fiscal 2023. Spinrad said NOAA is also
moving forward on a wide range of other climate-related projects after receiving $6 billion in new funding under the
bipartisan infrastructure law and the Inflation Reduction Act. "Those are new monies," he said, adding: "When I
started in the federal government, I was told there's no such thing as new money."


Load-Date: February 27, 2024


  
