

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
   ISG to Publish Reports on Private and Hybrid Cloud Services and Solutions Upcoming ISG Provider Lens(TM)
                             reports will evaluate providers enabling enterprises an....




ISG to Publish Reports on Private and Hybrid Cloud Services and Solutions;
 Upcoming ISG Provider Lens(TM) reports will evaluate providers enabling
  enterprises and public-sector clients to use multi-cloud environments for
                          more flexible operations
                                                  Business Wire
                                      January 12, 2024 Friday 4:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1321 words
Dateline: STAMFORD, Conn.

Body


Information Services Group ( ISG ) (Nasdaq: III ), a leading global technology research and advisory firm, has
launched a research study of service providers helping enterprises and U.S. public sector organizations combine
on-premises data centers and public cloud to optimize IT operations.

The study results will be published in three comprehensive ISG Provider Lens(TM) reports. The first two, called
Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Services, will cover companies offering managed services, managed hosting
and colocation services for global enterprises and U.S. public sector entities, respectively. The third, called
Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Solutions, will cover hybrid cloud management platforms and resiliency
platforms. The reports are scheduled to be released in June 2024.

Buyers at enterprises and public agencies will be able to use information from the reports to evaluate their current
vendor relationships, potential new engagements and available offerings, while ISG advisors use the information to
recommend providers to the firm's buy-side clients.

Private and hybrid cloud environments are crucial for enterprise and public sector IT, offering security, efficiency
and flexibility, as well as advanced data management and integration capabilities for AI and data training.
Organizations with high security needs, large data volumes, and close integration with enterprise applications and
workflows may opt for on-premises or private cloud solutions.

"As the private and hybrid cloud landscapes become more complex, enterprises and public sector entities need to
choose strategic services and solutions that drive efficiency and security and adapt to evolving market dynamics,"
said Jan Erik Aase, partner and global leader, ISG Provider Lens Research. "Our studies delve into these vital
requirements, guiding organizations toward informed choices for a successful cloud strategy."

For the two Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Services studies, ISG has distributed surveys to more than 275
private and hybrid cloud services providers for the global report and more than 45 providers for the U.S. public
sector report. Working in collaboration with ISG's global advisors, the research team will produce three quadrants

                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
  ISG to Publish Reports on Private and Hybrid Cloud Services and Solutions Upcoming ISG Provider Lens(TM)
                            reports will evaluate providers enabling enterprises an....

representing the services the typical enterprise and U.S. public sector entity is buying, based on ISG's experience
working with its clients. The three quadrants are:
    •    Managed Services, evaluating providers of services, including managing physical and virtual servers,
         middleware, storage, databases, and networking components across environments, including client data
         centers, multi-cloud settings, provider facilities, and third-party colocation centers. Providers typically offer
         transition services and guide clients to optimize their existing IT landscapes.
    •    Managed Hosting, assessing providers of standalone enterprise-grade hosting solutions on their own or
         third-party infrastructure. Providers take responsibility for regularly maintaining and managing components,
         including servers, storage, operating systems and connectivity to external networks.
    •    Colocation Services covers providers offering standardized data center operations by renting space for
         services and computing hardware in third-party spaces. Providers offer building, cooling, power, and
         security services while clients manage their hardware.

Geographically focused reports from the global study will cover the private/hybrid cloud market and examine
products and services available in Asia Pacific, Brazil, France, Germany, Netherlands, Nordics, Switzerland, the
U.K., the U.S. and the U.S. Public Sector.

ISG analysts Bruce Guptill, Pedro L. Bicudo Maschio, Phil Hassey, Rohan Thomas, Meenakshi Srivastava, Ulrich
Meister and Wolfgang Heinhaus will serve as authors of the global report. Guptill will serve as author of the U.S.
public sector report.

A list of identified providers and vendors and further details are available in this digital brochure for the global report
and this brochure for the U.S. Public Sector report.

For the Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Solutions study, ISG has distributed surveys to more than 40 providers.
The two quadrants are:
    •    Hybrid Cloud Management Platforms, evaluating software vendors providing robust integrated
         management platforms to build and manage on-premises, public, private and hybrid cloud infrastructures,
         ensuring consistency across cloud environments and enabling enterprises to deploy applications in a cost-
         effective, automated and standardized manner.
    •    Resiliency Platforms, assessing independent vendors offering platforms or solutions for backup and
         disaster recovery within on-premises, private, public and hybrid cloud environments. These platforms
         provide features such as business continuity and disaster recovery strategy, planning, implementation and
         continuous testing.

The solutions report will cover relevant services available in the global market. ISG analyst Chandra Shekhar
Sharma will serve as author of the report.

A list of identified providers and vendors and further details on the solutions study are available in this digital
brochure .

Companies not listed in the brochures can contact ISG and ask to be included in the studies.

All 2023 ISG Provider Lens(TM) evaluations feature expanded customer experience (CX) data that measures
actual enterprise experience with specific provider services and solutions, based on ISG's continuous CX research.
Enterprise customers wishing to share their experience about a specific provider or vendor are encouraged to
register here to receive a personalized survey URL. Participants will receive a copy of this report in return for their
feedback.

About ISG Provider Lens(TM) Research

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
  ISG to Publish Reports on Private and Hybrid Cloud Services and Solutions Upcoming ISG Provider Lens(TM)
                            reports will evaluate providers enabling enterprises an....

The ISG Provider Lens(TM) Quadrant research series is the only service provider evaluation of its kind to combine
empirical, data-driven research and market analysis with the real-world experience and observations of ISG's global
advisory team. Enterprises will find a wealth of detailed data and market analysis to help guide their selection of
appropriate sourcing partners, while ISG advisors use the reports to validate their own market knowledge and make
recommendations to ISG's enterprise clients. The research currently covers providers offering their services
globally, across Europe, and in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, the U.K., France, Benelux, Germany, Switzerland, the
Nordics, Australia and Singapore/Malaysia, with additional markets to be added in the future. For more information
about ISG Provider Lens research, please visit this webpage .

A companion research series, the ISG Provider Lens Archetype reports, offer a first-of-its-kind evaluation of
providers from the perspective of specific buyer types.

About ISG

ISG (Information Services Group) (Nasdaq: III ) is a leading global technology research and advisory firm. A trusted
business partner to more than 900 clients, including more than 75 of the world's top 100 enterprises, ISG is
committed to helping corporations, public sector organizations, and service and technology providers achieve
operational excellence and faster growth. The firm specializes in digital transformation services, including
automation, cloud and data analytics; sourcing advisory; managed governance and risk services; network carrier
services; strategy and operations design; change management; market intelligence and technology research and
analysis. Founded in 2006, and based in Stamford, Conn., ISG employs more than 1,600 digital-ready
professionals operating in more than 20 countries-a global team known for its innovative thinking, market influence,
deep industry and technology expertise, and world-class research and analytical capabilities based on the
industry's most comprehensive marketplace data. For more information, visit www.isg-one.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240112191111/en/


CONTACT: Press:Will Thoretz, ISG
+1 203 517 3119

will.thoretz@isg-one.com Julianna Sheridan, Matter Communications for ISG
+1 978-518-4520

isg@matternow.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: January 12, 2024


  
