

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 5
                            Turn Your Passion for Climate Change Into a Career at CU Denver




         Turn Your Passion for Climate Change Into a Career at CU Denver
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                             April 21, 2024 Sunday 9:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1925 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: DENVER, Colorado

Body


The University of Colorado issued the following news:

***

Do you want to make an impact on climate change? Do you want to find a career that connects your passions with
a job after graduation?

***

By Jennifer Woodruff

CU Denver continues to expand the fields that study and search for climate change solutions to extend well beyond
environmental studies. Students can now use their passion for climate change to develop careers in urban
planning, wildfire prevention, and sustainable business careers--just like their CU Denver professors have done
themselves.

Researching climate change is about more than just lectures and tests. Students get hands-on experience in labs
that are answering some of our greatest challenges. They are growing new generations of pest-resistant trees in
laboratories, 3D printing forest stabilization materials, raising bees on a downtown roof, and so much more.

As a multifaceted challenge, climate change research requires a collaborative, interdisciplinary approach, which CU
Denver offers with programs that address a wide range of climate change issues.

Here are just a few:

* architecture and urban planning

* ecology and biology

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 5
                            Turn Your Passion for Climate Change Into a Career at CU Denver

* geography

* climate justice and advocacy

* air quality

* wildfire prevention, regrowth, resiliency, and public policy

* business sustainability

Meet a Few of the Experts

Deserai Crow, PhD, Professor,

School of Public Affairs, Director of the PhD Public Affairs Program,

Interim Co-Director, Center for Community Safety and Resilience

Working To: Understand natural disaster recovery and risk mitigation in local communities.

How: Crow's work assesses environmental policy and disaster or crisis policies, including stakeholder participation
and influence, information sources used, and policy outcomes in developing policies. Her research often focuses on
natural disaster recovery and risk mitigation in local communities. Her natural hazards work includes a study of
community wildfire recovery decision-making after Colorado's Marshall Fire in 2021, as well as flood recovery and
policy learning in the aftermath of the 2013 floods in the state. Her current National Science Foundation-funded
project looks at environmental justice outcomes associated with oil and gas decision-making in Colorado's local
governments.

"Colorado is a special place to live and raise a family, so I've spent most of my career trying to understand the risks
that we face as a state and how our governments are grappling with these challenges. I hope that my work helps
decision-makers so that we can have more resilient communities." --Deserai Crow

Priyanka deSouza, PhD, Assistant Professor

College of Architecture and Planning, Urban and Regional Planning Department

Working To: Make cities around the world more resilient to the impacts of air pollution and climate change.

How: She is the co-principal investigator on a NASA Environmental Justice grant, which will allow her and others to
monitor air pollution and heat at bus stops around Denver. This is in partnership with the United States Geological
Survey to examine how air pollution and heat impacts bus ridership in neighborhoods and how that may correspond
to different socioeconomic statuses. She is also setting up a mobile laboratory at CU Denver to monitor air pollution
and other exposures at a fine spatial scale.

"I hope my research will make our cities more healthy and more just." --Priyanka deSouza

Katharine Kelsey, PhD, Assistant Professor

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Department of Geography & Environmental Sciences

Working To: Understand how climate change, particularly sea level rise, will impact coastal ecosystems in Alaska.
In addition, she is investigating the role of snow in ecosystem processes, including how snow protects plants and
soil from very low temperatures in the mountains in winter.

How: She is the lead principal investigator for a National Science Foundation-funded project that explores how
climate change will affect coastal ecosystems in Alaska. This project is starting its third and final field season in
May. She, and her multi-institutional collaborative team, have several presentations planned this spring.

                                                                                                         Page 3 of 5
                         Turn Your Passion for Climate Change Into a Career at CU Denver

"As scientists working in the realm of climate change, we still have so much to learn from one another, and from our
partners in land management, and interdisciplinary projects allow us to do that." --Katharine Kelsey

Carrie Makarewicz, PhD, Associate Professor & Department Chair

College of Architecture and Planning, Urban and Regional Planning Department

Working To: Understand how public investments, development, and public policies impact human development
through their effects on household income, accessible and safe neighborhoods, housing affordability, individual
health and well-being, access to regional opportunities, and environmental quality.

How: She is conducting a housing study that is related to the governor's new proposal to direct local governments
to adopt denser housing to provide more affordable housing and to address climate change. She is also a co-
director of CU Denver's new Community Collaborative Research Center, a community-engaged center that partners
with Cultivando to study the health impacts of air pollution, GreenLatinos and NREL to promote a just transition to
electric vehicles, Valverde Neighborhood Association to conduct a research-to-action tree planting project to reduce
the urban heat island, and the Mountain West Climate-Health Engagement Hub.

Michael Moore, PhD, Assistant Professor, Biology Research Faculty

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Department of Integrated Biology

Working To: Uncover how species' physiological and behavioral traits determine their vulnerabilities to climate
change and other environmental threats.

How: As the earth warms, plants and animals are being forced to either adjust to climates they've never
experienced before or to migrate to entirely new habitats. If we're going to be able to design conservation strategies
that save some of our most imperiled species, it is essential that scientists characterize the factors that help them
avoid extinction. Moore's lab is working to uncover how species' physiological and behavioral traits that determine
their vulnerabilities to climate change and other environmental threats.

"If we're going to understand how to best protect and manage the Earth's biodiversity over the coming decades, we
absolutely need to understand which traits are going to make species vulnerable to climate change and why." --
Michael Moore

Ivan J. Ramirez, PhD, Clinical Teaching Track Assistant Professor

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Department of Health and Behavioral Sciences, and launched the Civic
Engagement and Climate Justice (CECJ) Think Lab

Working To: Understand how communities interact with climate and how those interactions influence the health and
social vulnerability of populations and places.

How: His current research examines multi-disease risks in Latin America and Colorado, which are often driven by
social inequities and compounded by environmental changes. Ramirez is part of the first-ever cohort of public
scholars (Climate Change and Society theme) in the new Elevate the Discipline program at the American
Association of Geographers (AAG) and serves as a climate-society expert for the U.S. National Section of the Pan
American Institute of Geography and History (PAIGH). He is developing research focused on climate justice and
recently launched the Civic Engagement and Climate Justice (CECJ) Think Lab, a critical forum for interdisciplinary
undergraduate training.

"My passion for understanding climate and society is fueled by social injustices, locally and globally, and the need
for inter- and multi-disciplinary thinking. I am also deeply inspired by the voices and actions of environmental justice
communities." --Ivan Ramirez

Marc Swackhamer, Professor and Department Chair

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 5
                           Turn Your Passion for Climate Change Into a Career at CU Denver

College of Architecture and Planning, Architecture Department

Working To: Reimagine the use of invasive Colorado plant species as an abundant bio-based construction
materials rather than just as a liability in need of eradication.

How: He teaches an Undergraduate Architecture Studio V on the topic of "INVASIVENESS," which explores
contested ecological boundaries in Colorado. While the projects do not claim to "fix" the inherent problems of
invasive plant species, the goal is to call awareness to the human activities that have catalyzed decades of
unchecked ecological damage.

Diana Tomback, PhD, Professor and Interim Chair

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Department of Integrated Biology

Working To: Restore the whitebark pine, a keystone species in North America.

How: She is an ecologist, academic, and the policy and outreach coordinator at the nonprofit Whitebark Pine
Ecosystem Foundation. Additionally, she was recently honored as a 2023 Fellows of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, the society that publishes the prestigious interdisciplinary journal Science. Tomback
works in the fields of evolutionary ecology, avian ecology, conservation biology, and forest ecology, with a primary
focus on the Clark's nutcracker bird species and the ecology and restoration of whitebark pine. Whitebark pine,
threatened by exotic disease, native insects, shifting fire regimes, and climate change, was listed as threatened
under the Endangered Species Act and listed as endangered in Canada. She also supported the recent
reintroduction of wolves to Colorado by serving as a science advisor to the Rocky Mountain Wolf Project and other
NGOs.

"The decline of whitebark pine was a clarion call to action." --Diana Tomback

Christopher Weible, PhD, Professor; Co-Editor, Policy & Politics

Program Director, Master of Public Policy; Co-Director, Center for Policy and Democracy; and Visiting Professor at
Lulea University of Technology, Sweden

School of Public Affairs

Working To: Understand policy conflicts in energy issues.

How: Dr. Weible's research centers on policy process theories and methods, democracy, and environmental policy.
His recent and current research includes studying policy conflicts in energy issues, including siting energy
infrastructure and oil and gas development, the role of emotions in public discourse, institutional analyses of the
content of public policy, and patterns and explanations of policy change.

"The challenge in mitigating and adapting to climate change must involve improving how we govern, making our
politics more sustainable, and ensuring greater human dignity for all." --Christopher Weible

And there's more!

Moatassem Abdallah, PhD, Associate Professor

College of Engineering, Design and Computing, Department of Civil Engineering

Working To: develop a system using AI that proactively predict daily electricity demands to determine the optimum
times to charge and discharge EVs to minimize electricity peak demand.

Jaedo Park, PhD, Professor

College of Engineering, Design and Computing, Department of Electrical Engineering

                                                                                                   Page 5 of 5
                       Turn Your Passion for Climate Change Into a Career at CU Denver

Working To: make it possible for neighbors to share green generated electricity and bring resiliency to an aging
electrical grid during extreme weather.

Manish Shirgaokar, PhD, AICP, Associate Professor

College of Architecture and Planning, Department of Urban and Regional Planning

Working To: understand the benefits of e-Bike rebate programs and how fare-free paratransit affects demand
among disabled populations during extreme-weather days.

***

Original text here: https://news.ucdenver.edu/turn-your-passion-climate-change-career-cu-denver/

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8585577 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: April 21, 2024


  
