

                                                                                             Page 1 of 2
     Cloudera Unveils Next Phase of Open Data Lakehouse Focused on Maximizing Customer Data to Unlock
                                                Enterprise AI




        Cloudera Unveils Next Phase of Open Data Lakehouse Focused on
               Maximizing Customer Data to Unlock Enterprise AI
                                                           PR Newswire
                                             March 5, 2024 Tuesday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1071 words
Dateline: SANTA CLARA, Calif., March 5, 2024

Body


PR NewswireCloudera is now the only provider to offer an open data lakehouse with Apache Iceberg for public and
private clouds Platform will be on display at booth #1534 during the Gartner Data & Analytics Summit in
March SANTA CLARA, Calif., March 5, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Cloudera, the data company for trusted enterprise AI,
today announced the next phase of its open data lakehouse on private cloud that revolutionizes on-premises data
experiences for trusted analytics and AI at scale. With its latest round of enhancements, Cloudera has become the
only provider to offer an open data lakehouse with Apache Iceberg for public and now private clouds, helping
customers to unlock the enterprise AI potential of all their data.

 Cloudera Unveils Next Phase of Open Data Lakehouse Focused on Maximizing Customer Data to Unlock
Enterprise AIResearch from Cloudera estimates that 53% of organizations in the U.S. currently use Generative AI
technology andmore than a third (36%) are in the early stages of exploring AI for potential implementation in 2024.
But implementations have stalled as many enterprises struggle to access or achieve business value from their data
with AI. Challenges include distributed data infrastructures, governance risks, or security concerns.By delivering
Apache Iceberg for private clouds, Cloudera is empowering every organization to overcome these issues and
quickly scale enterprise AI deployments to generate greater value. Apache Iceberg is an open-source, high-
performance table format for vast analytic tables. When applied to private clouds, the solution enables companies
to apply AI to the vast amounts of mission-critical data that exists both in the cloud and on premises, ultimately
allowing them to create new use cases. Cloudera is also now the only company to provide the ability to run a
completely air-gapped large language model (LLM) deployment, providing customers with enhanced security and
data privacy, as well as improved performance and reduced operational costs. Cloudera is also rolling out a series
of additional updates to its platform that will deliver unprecedented business value to its customer base,
including:Zero downtime upgrades (ZDU) and security enhancements such as Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2
for increased business continuity and minimized interruptions.New Apache Ozone capabilities, such as quotas,
snapshots, and disaster recovery enhancements that enable vastly greater scalability at lower cost to service the
voracious data consumption needs of modern workloads.Expanded support for integrations including Python
3.10, RHEL 9.1, RHEL 8.8 FIPS, SLES 15 SP4, Oracle 8.8, and JDK 17 for increased compatibility and
flexibility."Cloudera's mission is to empower customers to transform data anywhere into actionable insights by
enabling it with AI," said Dipto Chakravarty, Chief Product Officer at Cloudera. "By giving them a trusted data
foundation for analytics, this next phase of cloud-native solutions unlocks endless possibilities for building

                                                                                             Page 2 of 2
     Cloudera Unveils Next Phase of Open Data Lakehouse Focused on Maximizing Customer Data to Unlock
                                                Enterprise AI

innovative AI applications." "In this AI-powered era, we'll continue to see formidable AI applications emerge that
significantly increase the business value of enterprise data," said Sanjeev Mohan, Principal, SanjMo. "For
organizations to capitalize on this technological gold rush, data cannot be locked away in company data centers.
Enterprises need a data management strategy that enables them to transform complex data anywhere into
actionable insights through a comprehensive, open, and hybrid platform.""The Iceberg community is very big and is
growing fast. It's being adopted around the world. Cloudera's open data lakehouse with Iceberg means we have an
open table format with a lot of advanced functionality, which makes it easier to use and maintain our data. The open
table format is important to us, because it means data can be accessed easily by many users with a variety of
tools," said Matteo Carucci, Head of Data & Analytics, Eutelsat. "The open table format is a fundamental
requirement because the company data is the property of the company itself, not a specific vendor. So an open
table format guarantees that whatever may happen with technology in the future, you have full ownership of your
data. "Cloudera will be demonstrating its latest series of updates at theGartner Data & Analytics Summit, taking
place March 11-13, 2024 in Orlando, Florida. Attendees will see firsthand the enhancements to Cloudera's platform
and speak to Cloudera experts onsite about the company's next phase of cloud- native solutions. Additionally,
Cloudera's Technical Evangelism Director, Jake Bengston, will be leading a session at the event on March 12 titled,
"Game-Changing Gen AI: Advancing from Pilot to Production at Enterprise Scale." The session will cover stories of
seasoned AI leaders from top global enterprises about lessons learned, best practices, and avoidable pitfalls so
attendees can cut through the hype and deliver production-ready AI for a competitive edge.More information on
Cloudera's open data lakehouse can be foundhere. To learn more about Cloudera's presence at the upcoming
Gartner Summit, visit:https://www.cloudera.com/events.html About Cloudera

At Cloudera, we believe data can make what is impossible today, possible tomorrow. We empower people to
transform data anywhere into trusted enterprise AI so they can reduce costs and risks, increase productivity, and
accelerate business performance. Our open data lakehouse enables secure data management and portable cloud-
native data analytics helping organizations manage and analyze data of all types, on any cloud, public or private.
With as much data under management as the hyperscalers, we're the preferred data partner for the top companies
in almost every industry. Cloudera has guided the world on the value and future of data, and continues to lead a
vibrant ecosystem powered by the relentless innovation of the open source community. Learn more at
Cloudera.com and follow us onLinkedIn andX. Cloudera and associated marks are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Cloudera, Inc. All other company and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cloudera-unveils-next-
phase-of-open-data-lakehouse-focused-on-maximizing-customer-data-to-unlock-enterprise-ai-
302079388.htmlSOURCE Cloudera, Inc.


Load-Date: March 5, 2024


  
