

                                                                              Page 1 of 2
   NSF AND PHILANTHROPIC PARTNERS ANNOUNCE $16 MILLION IN FUNDING TO PRIORITIZE ETHICAL
                  AND SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES




      NSF AND PHILANTHROPIC PARTNERS ANNOUNCE $16 MILLION IN
     FUNDING TO PRIORITIZE ETHICAL AND SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN
                      EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES
                                                States News Service
                                              January 9, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 610 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON D.C.

Body


The following information was released by the Ford Foundation:

ReDDDoT is a collaboration with five philanthropic partners and crosses all disciplines of science and engineering

The U.S. National Science Foundation today launched a new $16 million program in collaboration with five
philanthropic partners that seeks to ensure ethical, legal, community and societal considerations are embedded in
the lifecycle of technology's creation and use. The Responsible Design, Development and Deployment of
Technologies (ReDDDoT) program aims to help create technologies that promote the public's wellbeing and
mitigate potential harms.

The design, development and deployment of technologies have broad impacts on society, said NSF Director
Sethuraman Panchanathan. As discoveries and innovations are translated to practice, it is essential that we engage
and enable diverse communities to participate in this work. NSF and its philanthropic partners share a strong
commitment to creating a comprehensive approach for co-design through soliciting community input, incorporating
community values and engaging a broad array of academic and professional voices across the lifecycle of
technology creation and use.

The ReDDDoT program invites proposals from multidisciplinary, multi-sector teams that examine and demonstrate
the principles, methodologies and impacts associated with responsible design, development and deployment of
technologies, especially those specified in the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022. In addition to NSF, the program is
funded and supported by the Ford Foundation, the Patrick J. McGovern Foundation, Pivotal Ventures, Siegel
Family Endowment and the Eric and Wendy Schmidt Fund for Strategic Innovation.

"In recognition of the role responsible technologists can play to advance human progress, and the danger
unaccountable technology poses to social justice, the ReDDDoT program serves as both a collaboration and a
covenant between philanthropy and government to center public interest technology into the future of progress,"
said Darren Walker, president of the Ford Foundation. "This $16 million initiative will cultivate expertise from public

                                                                             Page 2 of 2
  NSF AND PHILANTHROPIC PARTNERS ANNOUNCE $16 MILLION IN FUNDING TO PRIORITIZE ETHICAL
                 AND SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES

interest technologists across sectors who are rooted in community and grounded by the belief that innovation,
equity and ethics must equally be the catalysts for technological progress."

The broad goals of ReDDDoT include:

Stimulating activity and filling gaps in research, innovation and capacity building in the responsible design,
development, and deployment of technologies.

Creating broad and inclusive communities of interest that bring together key stakeholders to better inform practices
for the design, development, and deployment of technologies.

Educating and training the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics workforce on approaches to
responsible design, development, and deployment of technologies.

Accelerating pathways to societal and economic benefits while developing strategies to avoid or mitigate societal
and economic harms.

Empowering communities, including economically disadvantaged and marginalized populations, to participate in all
stages of technology development, including the earliest stages of ideation and design.

Phase 1 of the program solicits proposals for Workshops, Planning Grants, or the creation of Translational
Research Coordination Networks, while Phase 2 solicits full project proposals. The initial areas of focus for 2024
include artificial intelligence, biotechnology or natural and anthropogenic disaster prevention or mitigation. Future
iterations of the program may consider other key technology focus areas enumerated in the CHIPS and Science
Act.


Load-Date: January 9, 2024


  
