

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
      York U's State-of-the-Art Emergency and Disaster Simulation Lab With Emergency Operations Centre a
                                              Multifunctional First




      York U's State-of-the-Art Emergency and Disaster Simulation Lab With
               Emergency Operations Centre a Multifunctional First
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                             July 4, 2024 Thursday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1011 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: TORONTO, Ontario

Body


York University issued the following news release on July 3, 2024:

***

The launch today of the Victor Phillip Dahdaleh Advanced Disaster, Emergency and Rapid Response Simulation
(ADERSIM) Lab and Emergency Operations Centre is thanks to some $3.5M in private and public funding

***

As extreme weather and the likelihood of disasters increase, York University today opened its new state-of-the-art
Victor Phillip Dahdaleh Advanced Disaster, Emergency and Rapid Response Simulation (ADERSIM) Lab,
designed to act as an Emergency Operations Centre (EOC), thanks to close to $3.5 million in private and public
funds.

Philanthropist and York alumnus Victor Dahdaleh and his wife Mona donated $2 million through The Victor
Dahdaleh Foundation towards construction, equipment and operating costs for the lab's EOC. In addition, the
Ontario Research Fund (ORF) through the Ministry of Colleges and Universities contributed $1.45 million in initial
funding.

As an EOC, the Victor Phillip Dahdaleh ADERSIM Lab is now equipped to manage, coordinate and act as a hub to
support large-scale emergency operations. It will allow researchers to conduct research, train, simulate, as well as
evaluate rapid emergence response strategies by government, non-government and private sector organizations
across Canada and around the world, while providing assistance to other EOCs.

"The generous donation by The Victor Dahdaleh Foundation and funding from the Ontario Research Fund will allow
York to make a positive difference in disaster and emergency planning not only in Ontario, but throughout Canada

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
      York U's State-of-the-Art Emergency and Disaster Simulation Lab With Emergency Operations Centre a
                                              Multifunctional First

and around the world," says Rhonda Lenton, president and vice-chancellor of York University. "I want to thank
Victor and Mona Dahdaleh and the government of Ontario for supporting York in its mission to advance the UN
SDGs in ways that serve our local and global communities."

The goal is to enhance disaster and emergency planning and rapid emergency response strategies to help support
and train others for when disaster strikes anywhere in Canada or the world. The Victor Phillip Dahdaleh ADERSIM
Lab will develop emergency management tools and technologies, train students and industry partners, and operate
as a primary or support EOC during real emergencies. It is the only multifunctional EOC for research, training and
operations at a university in Canada.

"Today, as we officially open this lab, we are celebrating a new facility with cutting-edge equipment. With our recent
global experience of the COVID pandemic and now with more extreme weather events because of climate change,
we know that disasters and emergencies are a fact of life, and they will become more frequent and perhaps even
more severe," says Victor Dahdaleh. "The centre is a national and global network. The research you will do here
will be good for Ontario, Canada and the world."

As a new Emergency Operations Centre at York, it is crucial to provide critical predictive and decision tools to
emergency managers through modelling and rapid response simulations to provide urgent training during and
immediately after emergencies. The simulations include computer as well as human-based simulations, or a
combination of both, using cutting-edge extended reality and artificial intelligence.

"We are observing more and more emergencies that require activation of EOCs. Our EOC is unique for several
reasons including its research, training and operational focus," says Ali Asgary, executive director of ADERSIM and
professor of disaster and emergency management in the Faculty of Liberal Arts and Professional Studies. "This
means that we need to be able to develop more tools and technologies to support the EOCs, train more students
and professionals to use these tools and learn how EOCs function and operate. More importantly through our
research, our EOC can provide support to other activated EOCs in Canada and globally as needed."

Through rapid response sensing, monitoring and emergency communications, the Victor Phillip Dahdaleh
ADERSIM Lab EOC will provide critical information to decision makers during emergencies and disruptions. Using
data mining to extract and share critical data and develop rapid dashboards, it will support emergency management
functions and operations. It will also help develop tools and technologies, as well as mapping and visualization to
support emergency logistics and transportation needs.

The plan for the Victor Phillip Dahdaleh ADERSIM Lab EOC is to conduct field research as soon as emergencies
happen to collect data and information that can be unavailable after emergencies end.

In addition, through partnerships, the lab can provide access to key information and data to guide practical and
applied research projects and technology development to best tackle real world problems. Internships and
exchange programs will further broaden the training of students and benefit partners.

The lab will expand capacity for research and training in areas of particular importance to the world, through health,
disaster and risk management, but also further York's commitment to taking action on the UN SDGs.

This most recent donation from Victor and Mona Dahdaleh, global philanthropists focussed on health, education
and social and economic development, brings their total support to York to more than $24 million. With a degree in
business administration from York, Victor Dahdaleh is the largest alumni donor in the University's history.

Today's event included a tour of the Victor Phillip Dahdaleh ADERSIM Lab EOC with a live demonstration where
guests could use virtual and augmented reality tools during a simulation of an emergency. At the same time,
several stations around the room highlighted different emergency management functions, while another simulation
highlighted what would happen during a live disaster.

***

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
     York U's State-of-the-Art Emergency and Disaster Simulation Lab With Emergency Operations Centre a
                                             Multifunctional First

Original    text   here:  https://www.yorku.ca/news/2024/07/03/york-us-state-of-the-art-emergency-and-disaster-
simulation-lab-with-emergency-operations-centre-a-multifunctional-first/

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8707704 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: July 4, 2024


  
