

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 2
                  WHAT IS LONG-VIEW LEADERSHIP AND WHY ARE ELDERS CALLING FOR IT?




 WHAT IS LONG-VIEW LEADERSHIP AND WHY ARE ELDERS CALLING FOR
                              IT?
                                                States News Service
                                            February 15, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 736 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: LONDON

Body


The following information was released by the Elders:

The Elders believe a bold new approach to decision-making is needed to urgently address the existential threats
faced by humanity. But what does 'long-view leadership' look like?

The climate and nature crises, pandemics, nuclear weapons and the emerging risks of AI - we face a set of threats
that put all humanity in jeopardy. The Elders believe world leaders are not responding with the wisdom and urgency
required, and are calling for a bold new approach to these existential threats.

The impact of these threats is already being seen. Whilst the knowledge and resources to address these challenges
exist, too many of our leaders lack the political will or capability to take decisive action.

This is why The Elders are calling for 'long-view leadership'. We need decision-makers who understand the urgency
of the existential threats we face, and believe in our ability to overcome them.

Principles of long-view leadership

Long-view leadership means showing the determination to resolve intractable problems not just manage them, the
wisdom to make decisions based on scientific evidence and reason, and the humility to listen to all those affected.

Long-view leaders must have the moral strength to address both current concerns and long-term risks, often at the
expense of vested interests.

The Elders propose five principles of long-view leadership. Decision-makers must consistently demonstrate the
courage to:

Think beyond short-term political cycles and deliver solutions for both current and future generations.

Recognise that enduring answers require compromise and collaboration for the good of the whole world.

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                WHAT IS LONG-VIEW LEADERSHIP AND WHY ARE ELDERS CALLING FOR IT?

Show compassion for all people, designing sustainable policies which respect that everyone is born free and equal
in dignity and rights.

Uphold the international rule of law and accept that durable agreements require transparency and accountability.

Commit to a vision of hope in humanity's shared future, not play to its divided past.

An open letter calling for long-view leadership on existential threats

On 15 February 2024, The Elders and the Future of Life Institute launched a combined call for long-view leadership
in an open letter to world leaders.

The letter was co-signed by a diverse global coalition from politics, civil society, science, philanthropy, activism and
the arts. Over 150 global leaders, experts and public figures from nearly 60 countries came together to urge
decision-makers to collaborate on bold, practical solutions to combat the ongoing harms and escalating risks faced
by humanity.

The letter welcomes people of all communities, generations, and political views to join the call for courageous
decision-making. Sign the open letter here.

Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland, and Chair of The Elders:

"Our world is in grave danger, but with long-view leadership rooted in truth, justice and inclusion, we can still step
back from the precipice. This does not mean global decision-makers should neglect the challenges we face today; it
means making decisions that go beyond short-term politics and delivering solutions for people struggling now, as
well as future generations. This is entirely possible: if nations work together, our best future can still lie ahead of
us."

Ban Ki-moon, former UN Secretary-General and Deputy Chair of The Elders:

"The range of signatories to this open letter makes clear our shared concern: we need world leaders who
understand the existential threats we face and the urgent need to address them. This can only be done through
decisive cooperation between nations. We need to revitalise multilateralism for the sake of our common future. This
means upholding the international rule of law and being open and accountable for the decisions we must take.
When nations work together, these challenges can all be addressed, for the good of us all."

Max Tegmark, president and founder, Future of Life Institute:

"Global leaders have a critical opportunity to turn the course of human history away from disaster, towards
inspiring, shared futures. We've risen together to meet such crises before, from banning bioweapons to rebuilding
the ozone layer, and we can do so again now. With effective governance and intentional cooperation, we can
combat both ongoing harms and rapidly escalating risks, while ensuring that the benefits of transformative
technologies such as AI are shared by everyone."


Load-Date: February 15, 2024


  
