

                                                                                                            Page 1 of 4
                          Gartner Identifies Top Nine Workplace Predictions for CHROs in 2024




      Gartner Identifies Top Nine Workplace Predictions for CHROs in 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           January 4, 2024 Thursday 9:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1526 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: STAMFORD, Connecticut

Body


Gartner, an information technology research and advisory company, issued the following news release:

Gartner, Inc. has revealed its top nine workplace predictions that HR leaders will need to address in 2024 and
beyond to successfully position their organizations to attract and retain top talent and drive business outcomes.

"We have seen several shifts affecting the workplace, including the emergence of generative AI (GenAI), pilots
around establishing a four-day workweek, and changes to traditional careers," said Emily Rose McRae, Senior
Director Analyst in the Gartner HR practice. "This year's predictions highlight the aspects of work that HR leaders
must prioritize over the next 12 months."

The top nine predictions for HR leaders are:

The Cost-of-Work Crisis Reaches a Breaking Point

Employees who have been working remotely or in a hybrid environment have experienced what it is to work without
bearing the costs - financial, time and energy - associated with going into an office daily. As many employers
implement a mandate for remote employees to return to the office after long periods of remote work, employees
now have a sharper awareness of what they "spend" to go to work.

In 2024, organizations looking to attract and retain talent will not just try to find the perfect hybrid strategy, but they
will look to tackle the cost of work head-on via two strategies: by sharing the tangible and intangible costs of
returning to the office or by finding ways to reduce the total costs. This may include things such as: caregiving
benefits, housing subsidies, financial well-being programs, or the ability for associates to bring their pets to work.

AI Creates, Not Diminishes, Workforce Opportunity

Despite anxiety and significant discussion around how GenAI will impact jobs, in the short- to medium-term,
generative AI will fully replace few jobs. GenAI will lower the level of technical skills needed for many roles, widely

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 4
                       Gartner Identifies Top Nine Workplace Predictions for CHROs in 2024

increasing the roles for which candidates can qualify. Many jobs heavily impacted by GenAI will be redesigned and
will have new responsibilities that include interacting with GenAI tools.

This year, leaders should partner with HR to assess how GenAI investments should change their teams' roles and
workflows, and how to identify potential internal candidates for newly redesigned roles. HR must also evaluate the
impact on hiring strategies, identifying which technical requirements and assessments are now unnecessary for
open and upcoming roles and determining how to assess talent against any new skill needs.

Four-Day Workweeks Go from Radical to Routine

A four-day workweek (4DWW) has become a centerpiece of large-scale studies in performance, union negotiations,
and the preferences of many workers. Embracing a 4DWW will require organizations to rethink the cadence of the
work week and re-examine what is necessary to get work done.

Organizations in 2024 will use 4DWWs to improve talent outcomes - including employee engagement, performance
and well-being - and business outcomes, including eliminating inefficiencies, increasing talent attraction and
retention and driving competitive advantage.

Employee Conflict Resolution is New Must-Have Skill for Managers

Conflicts between employees are poised to be at an all-time high in 2024 due to geopolitical crises, labor strikes,
climate change, pushback to DEI efforts, and upcoming elections for half of the globe. Conflict resolution requires
actively working through challenging moments, pulling employees back from ostracizing colleagues with opposing
viewpoints to focus on areas of mutual respect, or at least neutrality.

"Managers who can effectively navigate and manage interpersonal conflict among employees will have an outsize
positive impact on their organizations; the question is how many really feel trained and prepared to do so," said
Peter Aykens, Chief of Research in the Gartner HR practice.

Organizations should consider bringing in dedicated conflict management trainings, creating shadowing and
coaching opportunities for new managers to see how experienced leaders resolve intense conflicts between
employees, and finding ways to recognize and reward effective conflict resolution at all levels of the organization.

Generative AI Experiments Will Yield Hard Lessons and Painful Costs

Enthusiasm, hype, and a strong fear of missing out or being left behind are driving executives to push for the
implementation of GenAI within their teams and organizations. Companies will need to actively manage the risks of
GenAI, including more rigorous access and file classification policies internally, and solid quality control and
judgment when utilizing the outputs of GenAI tools.

These risks don't outweigh the potential benefits of GenAI, but they will lead organizations to train employees to
develop judgment around not just information validity, but also how and when to use GenAI.

Skills Overtake Degrees as the Paper Ceiling Crumbles

College degrees are the top requirement of yesterday's job descriptions. Organizations today are increasingly
shredding the paper ceiling - the invisible barrier workers without degrees face - and embracing skills-based hiring,
even for some corporate jobs long considered degree-dependent.

Removing degree requirements from job postings will enable organizations to attract qualified talent by hiring from a
much broader talent pool that includes both internally developed talent and workers via Skilled Through Alternative
Routes (STARs). Leading organizations are increasingly touting their in-house universities and business schools -
and expanding apprenticeship programs - as tailored credential programs that prepare talent with the specific skills
they'll need to advance.

Climate Change Protection Becomes the New In-Demand Employee Benefit

                                                                                                          Page 3 of 4
                       Gartner Identifies Top Nine Workplace Predictions for CHROs in 2024

Severe climate change-related events are shifting from localized and episodic to widespread and persistent, and
organizations are responding by making climate change disaster response a more visible component of benefits
packages.

In 2024 and beyond, organizations will begin to highlight and promote direct climate change protections as a key
part of their benefit offerings. These will include explicit commitments to physical safety (such as plans to offer
shelter or energy provisions when natural disasters arrive), compensation to impacted employees, and mental
health support.

DEI Doesn't Disappear, It Becomes the Way We Work

There has been a growing sense of disillusionment with DEI over the past few years; in the U.S. there's even a
sense of direct pushback. However, the critical need for diverse, equitable and inclusive workforces remains,
leaving organizations uncertain about what to do next.

"In 2024, companies will begin to pivot from DEI existing solely in a silo to having it embedded throughout the
organization," said McRae. "In this new model, DEI will shift to a shared way of working as organizations fully
integrate DEI values into business objectives, daily operations and culture."

Career Stereotypes Collapse in the Face of Workforce Change

The traditional career path where employees rise up the ranks and retire at the peak of their career is going away.
Many employees don't retire at all or do so after a career shift or break. Workers are also facing involuntary
disruption to careers due to economic cycles, displacement during conflict and natural disasters, and shifting
responsibilities as technology and business models evolve.

As atypical career paths become mainstream, the well-entrenched talent stereotypes that underpin most talent
management strategies will prove a growing barrier to talent acquisition and retention. For example, employers will
break with the stereotype of career continuity by offering job sharing, gig work or reduced hours to provide greater
flexibility. To take advantage of expertise where it exists, regardless of tenure, organizations will break the mold of a
step-by-step progressive career trajectory.

Gartner clients can learn more via the webinar: The 9 Future of Work Trends That Impact Your 2024 Strategy.
Additional information is available in the associated article "9 Future of Work Trends For 2024."

***

About the Gartner HR Practice

The Gartner HR practice brings together the best relevant content approaches across Gartner to offer individual
decision makers strategic business advice on the mission-critical priorities that cut across the HR function.
Additional information is available at http://www.gartner.com/en/human-resources/human-resources-leaders. Follow
news and updates from the Gartner HR practice on X and LinkedIn using #GartnerHR.

***

About Gartner

Gartner, Inc. (NYSE: IT) delivers actionable, objective insight that drives smarter decisions and stronger
performance on an organization's mission-critical priorities. To learn more, visit gartner.com.

***

Original text here: https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2024-01-03-gartner-identifies-top-nine-
workplace-predictions

                                                                                                Page 4 of 4
                      Gartner Identifies Top Nine Workplace Predictions for CHROs in 2024

[Category: BizConsulting]

Contact:    Mary     Baker,        Gartner,   Mary.Baker@gartner.com;       Gerri     Weinberger,    Gartner,
Gerri.Weinberger@gartner.com

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8430530 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 4, 2024


  
