

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 4
                  GEOSPATIAL PROGRAM HELPS MILLIONS GET POST-DISASTER AID SOONER




     GEOSPATIAL PROGRAM HELPS MILLIONS GET POST-DISASTER AID
                           SOONER
                                                       US Fed News
                                            March 28, 2024 Thursday 9:25 PM EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 1379 words

Body


Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala., March 28 -- The U.S. Air Force Auxiliary Civil Air Patrol issued the following news
release:

By the time most of the world became aware of deadly wildfires ripping through Lahaina and Kula on Maui, a small
team of Civil Air Patrol and Federal Emergency Management Agency members had already remotely identified 800
damaged or destroyed structures.

Using publicly available imagery and artificial intelligence technology, within days the remote team assessed
some 2,000 homes and businesses and deemed more than 1,800 destroyed or damaged.-- They drew on satellite
imagery and airborne imagery from both Vexcel Imaging and CAP's Hawaii Wing,

Working with FEMA, the CAP team created a map of the damaged structures- which President Joe Biden used in
issuing a federal disaster declaration to expedite financial aid to fire victims. A White House social media post on
federal support to Hawaii showed the president viewing the assessment map.

"In his hand he was holding a map - and it was our team's map," said Maj. Scott Kaplan, volunteer manager for the
CAP Geospatial Program.

"We never thought the products our team helped FEMA create would be given to the president."

That small but rewarding recognition was among many highlights for the relatively young CAP program. Last year it
assessed more than 63,000 structures in 18 states and territories, amounting to more than 1,000 volunteer hours
that helped speed relief to millions of Americans in need.

Not bad for a program only 5 years old.

"I've joked all along that as a program, we're still crawling or walking. But really, we've been running with scissors
since we started," said Kaplan, who recently served as deputy commander for Virginia Wing Group 3.

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 4
                GEOSPATIAL PROGRAM HELPS MILLIONS GET POST-DISASTER AID SOONER

He's employed as the senior adviser to the chairman of the Civil Applications Committee at the U.S. Geological
Survey, where he's on a joint assignment from the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.

Kaplan was tapped to create what was then called the CAP Geographic Information Systems (GIS) team - now
known as the CAP Geospatial Program to reflect a broader mission beyond the use of GIS.

Today, in addition to airborne and satellite imagery, the team heavily leverages open-source videos and photos and
even hand-held imagery collected through phone applications.

A GIS tool uses all this remote sensing data to visualize the material and create geospatial information. The
program continues to expand its ranks with CAP members, including cadets who help gather and analyze images
and other information far from a disaster zone.

Just recently, the program has been at work providing geospatial assessments for two other events of national
importance - destructive wildfires in the Texas panhandle and a tornado outbreak in the Midwest.

During its formation, leadership established three main goals for the program:

Help augment federal, state, and county emergency response teams in times of natural disasters with GIS-trained
personnel.

Provide visualized data to help CAP internally understand capabilities from National Headquarters down to the
squadron level.

Offer a potential career path for cadets in the geospatial industry.

Soon after the program was made official on July 31, 2019, Category 5 Hurricane Dorian struck the Bahamas and
eastern U.S.

Partnering with GIS technology provider Environmental Systems Research Institute Inc., better known as Esri, to
use its ArcGIS mapping and spatial analytics tools, the team got to work building a geospatial story map and
dashboard to assist CAP incident commanders.

Then in January 2020, a powerful earthquake struck Puerto Rico. The team equipped Puerto Rico Wing adult
members and cadets with geospatial handheld applications developed by CAP and the National Alliance for Public
Safety GIS.

Ground teams gathered images provided to the tool, which provided a comprehensive picture of the earthquake's
impact.

The images taken were the first vetted images provided to FEMA, accelerating a presidential disaster declaration.

Soon after that, COVID-19 hit, and the Geospatial Team was tasked with helping provide CAP the big picture of
infection rates for members across the country.

Using smartphone-based applications with a survey completed by squadron commanders showed how many
members tested positive for the virus in the previous week. Leveraging geospatial technology, the team was able to
show CAP's national leadership exactly how COVID was affecting membership.

Over just the first few disasters, "we helped augment FEMA during times of a natural disaster with CAP Geospatial
personnel; we helped CAP internally; and we got kids involved because we allowed them to use the same tools we
use," Kaplan said.

"In doing so, we had met all three goals of the program," he said.

One of the Geospatial Program's biggest draws is that anyone can participate, regardless of location, age, gender,
or disability.

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 4
               GEOSPATIAL PROGRAM HELPS MILLIONS GET POST-DISASTER AID SOONER

"We allow everyone to be involved, and that's been a big piece of our program since its inception," Kaplan stressed,
adding that even visually impaired volunteers are welcomed. "Even if someone is blind, we'll find a way for them to
help."

Maj. P. Adrian Carnes, the National Emergency Services Academy-Southeast chief of staff and South Carolina
Wing director of logistics, has participated in nine Geospatial Disaster Assessment Teams - including tornado and
hurricane coverage that earned team members some of the highest honors awarded by state governors and CAP
national leadership.

"You're helping other people in their darkest moment," Carnes said, "people who've lost everything, and we try to
help them pull their lives back together again."

Carnes' daughter Casey, now a hospice nurse, was a top-ranked cadet as a youth, and he believes one of the
Geospatial Program's best aspects is the opportunity for young cadets to work alongside adult members.

"These kids can do the same job I can do because they are trained just as I am," he said. "To have them develop a
sense of pride in themselves, and then carry that forward, is among the things I like most about CAP."

First Lt. John Roberts, homeland security officer for the Massachusetts Wing, joined the Geospatial Program in May
2022 as another way to contribute.

"You can do it from your chair or anywhere, at any time of the day," Roberts said. "More importantly, it gives
members the ability to contribute in real missions."

He recalls helping with damage assessments in Florida after Hurricane Ian damaged 24,546 structures in
September 2022. Roberts had family in Florida displaced by the storm, and because of the work he and others did,
his sister received financial assistance from FEMA in a matter of days.

"Anything we can do to improve that speed and get those resources and money allocated is our real mission," he
said.

In addition to expediting FEMA payments, the Geospatial Program's damage assessments can help combat
insurance fraud by matching claims against their evaluations - something even artificial intelligence solutions still
struggle to accurately detect. For instance, a solar panel on a perfectly intact house could be misread as destruction
because the machine sees what looks like a massive black hole in the image.

Recently Roberts and Carnes were among team members volunteering to help the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology's Lincoln Laboratories improve AI models to prevent such misinterpretations. Volunteers were divided
into three groups to label thousands of CAP-generated images and later confirm or reject results from the AI
program.

"The value CAP is providing MIT Lincoln Labs is massive," Roberts said.

For the Geospatial Program Damage Assessment Team, AI is now used to augment efforts - but it won't replace
them. "We're still better than the AI models," Kaplan said.

"We have some of the best damage assessment imagery experts for natural disasters in the country," he added.
And he has a spate of awards to back it up, including the Making a Difference Award given at Esri's federal
government conference and the CAP JanEX Prize for Innovation.

"I love what I do," Kaplan said. "At the end of the day, we're helping people, and that's what matters." For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com


Load-Date: March 31, 2024

                                                                              Page 4 of 4
             GEOSPATIAL PROGRAM HELPS MILLIONS GET POST-DISASTER AID SOONER



