

                                                                                             Page 1 of 2
   Rackspace Technology Launches Rackspace UK Sovereign Services for Secure, Cost-Effective Workloads in
                       the UK Public Sector and Regulated Services Next generatio....




   Rackspace Technology Launches Rackspace UK Sovereign Services for
   Secure, Cost-Effective Workloads in the UK Public Sector and Regulated
     Services; Next generation product set provides end-to-end, digitally
                          sovereign cloud services
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                            March 27, 2024 Wednesday 1:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 677 words

Body

LONDON, March 27, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Rackspace Technology® (NASDAQ: RXT), a leading end-to-
end hybrid, multicloud and AI technology solutions company, has announced the launch of Rackspace UK
Sovereign Services as part of its next generation product set. The offering provides end-to-end, digitally sovereign
cloud services for the UK public sector and other regulated industries.

Sovereign cloud services keep data, support, and infrastructure within the borders of a national state. This is
normally a requirement for government agencies, healthcare providers, law enforcement organisations and other
regulated industries in the private sector such as pharma and financial services. Providing a solution to these
sectors assures regulatory compliance and allows a reduction in an organisation’s security risk, especially important
considering the increase in global cyberthreats.

Rackspace UK Sovereign Services prioritises customer data security aligned with the recommendations of the UK
National Cyber Security Centre & NHS England amongst other UK regulatory bodies. Rackspace UK Sovereign
Services is changing the game by providing a platform that has dedicated compute and storage ‘Pods’ for each
customer sector, each Pod is isolated from any other with full segregation of compute and storage services
between customers. This approach ensures a cost-effective hosting solution for customers, while providing the high
levels of data security they require. The platform is designed for secure workloads accredited for UK Official (to a
handling guidance of Official-Sensitive) or NHS England Class V risk data.

Through Rackspace Technology’s extensive partnership with BT, it also provides secure, and fully sovereign,
communication services into our secure data centres, adding further value to the service to customers.

                                                                                             Page 2 of 2
   Rackspace Technology Launches Rackspace UK Sovereign Services for Secure, Cost-Effective Workloads in
                       the UK Public Sector and Regulated Services Next generatio....

“Digital independence and sovereignty within the UK have become key requirements of public sector and many
other regulated industries with only a small number of providers to choose from. This truly digital Sovereign offering
allows for the UK public sector to achieve cost savings and compliance all through a single provider, without
compromising on security or performance,” said Rick Martire, General Manager for Sovereign Services, UK at
Rackspace Technology.

Rackspace UK Sovereign Services key features include:
    •   ITIL based service delivery, with incident, change & problem management.
    •   Fully managed end-to-end solution with a pre-built blueprint, anti-malware protection, vulnerability
        scanning, performance monitoring and system patching included as standard.
    •   Separated multi-tenant PODs for UK healthcare, government, police and regulated industries to ensure
        compute and disk workloads are never mixed on the same physical servers or disks.
    •   Offering multiple levels of configuration for customers that require secure cost-effective multi-tenancy or
        dedicated compute / storage ranging up to a fully isolated compute, network and storage stack for higher
        security workloads.
    •   Highly available platforms across multiple data centres capable of delivering in-built Disaster Recovery as
        a service.
    •   Platforms and support team isolated from the Rackspace Technology global network to ensure no access
        is possible to sovereign platforms.
    •   Costed on a monthly usage-based model, ensuring migrations in or out of the environment can still be
        achieved with ease.
    •   Evergreen IT to ensure platforms are refreshed without a large CAPEX investment from Sovereign
        Customers.

About Rackspace Technology

Rackspace Technology is a leading end-to-end, hybrid, multicloud, and AI solutions company. We design, build,
and operate our customers' cloud environments across all major technology platforms, irrespective of technology
stack or deployment model. We partner with our customers at every stage of their cloud journey, enabling them to
modernize applications, build new products and adopt innovative technologies.

UK PR Contact: Devika Mistry, devika.mistry@rackspace.co .uk

Global PR Contact: Natalie Silva, publicrelations@rackspace.com


Load-Date: March 27, 2024


  
