

                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
              FP4A'S STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT BIDEN'S FISCAL YEAR 2025 BUDGET REQUEST




 FP4A'S STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT BIDEN'S FISCAL YEAR 2025 BUDGET
                           REQUEST
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            March 12, 2024 Tuesday 9:10 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 576 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


Foreign Policy for America issued the following news release agency statement on March 11, 2024:

***

Foreign Policy for America welcomes the release of President Biden's Fiscal Year 2025 budget request, which
includes important investments in diplomacy and development programs that will further advance U.S. national
security. Operating within the constraints of the bipartisan budget framework agreed to last Summer, the
Administration's request leaves critical priorities underfunded, but it would nevertheless constitute a net increase to
the topline level of the International Affairs budget, fulfilling President Biden's promise to revitalize U.S. diplomacy
and restore American leadership on the world stage to deliver for the American people. As Congress moves ahead
with the FY25 budget process, we call on thoughtful leaders in both chambers to treat this proposal for what it is:
not the starting point in a protracted negotiation, but a firm and pragmatic topline consistent with the bipartisan
budget caps established last Summer.

President Biden's request includes over $64 billion for the State Department, USAID and other critical international
programs. This includes allocating $500 million for the Green Climate Fund and overall support for developing
country climate efforts that will fulfill the administration's $11 billion annual climate finance pledge, approximately $1
billion to address root causes of migration from Central America, and $10.3 billion in humanitarian and refugee
assistance. Importantly, the budget request prioritizes modernizing our foreign policy architecture, including
expanding the use and oversight of AI within the State Department and over $2 million to reduce Foreign Service
vacancies and expand State and USAID's workforce by over 500 positions.

The Biden Administration's commitment to strengthening U.S. diplomacy and development stands in stark contrast
to the House Republicans, who sought nearly $10 billion in cuts to the FY24 International Affairs budget. These cuts
would have resulted in devastating reductions in disaster assistance, girls' education, and international health
programs that support global stability and economic productivity. Thankfully, the Administration and the Senate

                                                                                Page 2 of 2
            FP4A'S STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT BIDEN'S FISCAL YEAR 2025 BUDGET REQUEST

have rejected the House Republicans' reckless proposals, but their partisan approach has led to unnecessary
delays to the completion of the FY24 funding process. It is well past time for Congress to provide full-year funding to
the State Department, USAID, and other foreign affairs agencies.

Foreign Policy for America remains concerned that the level of the International Affairs budget is inadequate to
meet the pressing foreign policy and national security challenges of the 21st century. For decades, diplomacy and
development programs have been chronically underfunded, resulting in an extraordinary imbalance between
investments in America's military and non-military toolkit for engaging the world. While we applaud the
Administration's prioritization of alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific and Europe in its defense budget
request, the United States must also ensure that it properly resources our diplomatic engagement in these regions.
A failure to do so risks conflict and ultimately undermines our national security.

***

Original text here: https://www.fp4america.org/2024/03/11/fp4a-statement-fy25-budget/

[Category: Law/Legal]

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8524371 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 12, 2024


  
