

                                                                                                Page 1 of 3
       Intermap Further Increases Offering Size to Meet Strong Demand and Files Second Amended Offering
                                                    Document




  Intermap Further Increases Offering Size to Meet Strong Demand and Files
                    Second Amended Offering Document
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                               August 2, 2024 Friday 2:15 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: FINANCING AGREEMENTS
Length: 1669 words

Body


The Company has deployed to Indonesia to execute on its $20 million contract

NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION TO U.S. NEWSWIRE SERVICES OR DISSEMINATION IN THE UNITED STATES

DENVER, Aug. 02, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Intermap Technologies (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF)
(“Intermap” or the “Company”), a global leader in 3D geospatial products and intelligence solutions, announces a
second amendment to the terms of its offering of Class "A" common shares of the Company (“Common Shares”),
previously announced on July 3, 2024 and initially amended on July 19, 2024, as a result of high demand (as
further amended as described herein, the “Offering”). Intermap closed the second tranche of the Offering on July
26, 2024, which included the issuance of 2,085,000 Common Shares at a price of CAD$0.45 per Common Share
for aggregate gross proceeds of CAD$938,250.

The previously announced closing of the first tranche of the Offering included the issuance of 2,770,000 Common
Shares at a price of CAD$0.45 per Common Share for aggregate gross proceeds of CAD$1,246,500. To date, the
Company has issued an aggregate of 4,855,000 Shares under the Offering for aggregate gross proceeds of
CAD$2,184,750. Due to high demand, the Company is increasing the total maximum number of Common Shares to
be offered by 482,778 additional Common Shares, for an aggregate maximum under the Offering of up to
7,149,444 Common Shares when combined with the Common Shares issued under the first and second tranches.
The additional Common Shares are being offered at the same price of CAD$0.45 per Common Share, for maximum
gross proceeds under the Offering of up to approximately CAD$3,217,250. Upon issuance, all of the Common
Shares issued under the Offering will rank pari passu in all respects with the Company’s existing issued Common
Shares.

                                                                                               Page 2 of 3
      Intermap Further Increases Offering Size to Meet Strong Demand and Files Second Amended Offering
                                                   Document

The Company intends to close the oversubscribed third and final tranche of the Offering before August 9, 2024. The
closing of each tranche of the Offering, including the third tranche, is subject to certain conditions including, but not
limited to, the receipt of all necessary regulatory and other approvals.

In connection with this Offering, Intermap has engaged a third-party finder (the “Finder”) to conduct a best efforts
private placement of the Common Shares. The Finder will receive the same fee of: (i) an aggregate cash fee equal
to 1% of the gross proceeds of the Offering; and (ii) an issuance of Common Shares equal to 6% of the Common
Shares placed by the Finder under Offering.

The Company intends to use the aggregate net proceeds of the Offering for the execution of contracts and for
working capital. Primarily, the capital will be used to execute on its contract with the government of Indonesia to
map the island of Sulawesi, representing 10% of Indonesia land mass, as well as on a renewed and expanded
contract with the U.S. Air Force. The net proceeds of the Offering may also be used in connection with other
Southeast Asian contract awards as well as a major renewal and expansion of a global insurance client agreement.
Further details on the use of proceeds are set forth in the Second Amended Offering Document (as defined herein).

“Our $20 million contract with the Indonesian government is the first phase of creating a digital basemap to help the
country secure its social, environmental and economic future,” said Patrick A. Blott, Intermap Chairman and CEO.
“We have deployed to Indonesia to begin work on this first phase and expect to be awarded additional contracts to
map the remaining 90% of Indonesia’s land over the next few years. Part of the use of proceeds from this offering
will help us execute against phase one as well as other projects in our sales and deployment pipelines. On behalf of
the Company, I’d like to thank new and existing shareholders for their support.”

Subject to compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, the Common Shares will be offered for sale to
purchasers resident in Canada (except Quebec) pursuant to the listed issuer financing exemption under Part 5A of
National Instrument 45-106 – Prospectus Exemptions (the “Listed Issuer Financing Exemption”) and to purchasers
resident in the United States by way of private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration
requirements under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “1933 Act”). Because the Offering is
being completed pursuant to the Listed Issuer Financing Exemption, the securities issued in Canada under the
Offering will not be subject to a hold period in Canada pursuant to applicable Canadian securities laws.

There is an amended offering document related to this Offering (the “Second Amended Offering Document”) that
can be accessed under the Company’s profile at www.sedarplus.ca and on Intermap’s website at
www.intermap.com. Prospective investors should read this Second Amended Offering Document before making an
investment decision.

The securities described herein have not been, and will not be, registered under the 1933 Act, or any state
securities laws, and accordingly, may not be offered or sold within the United States except in compliance with the
registration requirements of the 1933 Act and applicable state securities requirements or pursuant to exemptions
therefrom. This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there
be any sale of the securities in the United States or in any other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale
would be unlawful.

Intermap Reader Advisory Certain information provided in this news release, including reference to the availability
of proceeds from the Offering, the Company’s ability to raise up to the maximum proceeds of the Offering, the use
of proceeds of the Offering, the expectation that the Offering will close and the anticipated timing thereof, the award
of new contracts and contract renewals and the use of proceeds in the Offering in connection therewith, successful
execution of the Company’s existing contracts and the Company’s expectations with respect to receiving contracts
to map the remaining 90% of Indonesia’s land mass, constitutes forward-looking statements. The words “will”,
“may”, “intends”, “expected to”, “anticipate”, “subject to”, “phase” and similar expressions are intended to identify
such forward-looking statements. Although Intermap believes that these statements are based on information and
assumptions which are current, reasonable and complete, these statements are necessarily subject to a variety of
known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Intermap’s forward-looking statements are subject to risks and

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
      Intermap Further Increases Offering Size to Meet Strong Demand and Files Second Amended Offering
                                                   Document

uncertainties pertaining to, among other things, cash available to fund operations, availability of capital, revenue
fluctuations, the nature of government contracts, including changing political circumstances in the relevant
jurisdictions, economic conditions, loss of key customers, retention and availability of executive talent, competing
technologies, common share price volatility, loss of proprietary information, software functionality, internet and
system infrastructure functionality, information technology security, breakdown of strategic alliances, and
international and political considerations, as well as those risks and uncertainties discussed Intermap’s Annual
Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2023 and other securities filings. While the Company makes
these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or
should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from those expected.
Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will
transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what benefits that the Company will derive therefrom. All subsequent
forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, attributable to Intermap or persons acting on its behalf are
expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements contained in
this news release are made as at the date of this news release and the Company does not undertake any obligation
to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking statements made herein, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable securities law.

About Intermap TechnologiesFounded in 1997 and headquartered in Denver, Colorado, Intermap (TSX: IMP;
OTCQB: ITMSF) is a global leader in geospatial intelligence solutions, focusing on the creation and analysis of 3D
terrain data to produce high-resolution thematic models. Through scientific analysis of geospatial information and
patented sensors and processing technology, the Company provisions diverse, complementary, multi-source
datasets to enable customers to seamlessly integrate geospatial intelligence into their workflows. Intermap’s 3D
elevation data and software analytic capabilities enable global geospatial analysis through artificial intelligence
and machine learning, providing customers with critical information to understand their terrain environment. By
leveraging its proprietary archive of the world’s largest collection of multi-sensor global elevation data, the
Company’s collection and processing capabilities provide multi-source 3D datasets and analytics at mission speed,
enabling governments and companies to build and integrate geospatial foundation data with actionable insights.
Applications for Intermap’s products and solutions include defense, aviation and UAV flight planning, flood and
wildfire insurance, disaster mitigation, base mapping, environmental and renewable energy planning,
telecommunications, engineering, critical infrastructure monitoring, hydrology, land management, oil and gas and
transportation.

For more information, please visit www.intermap.com               or   contact:Patrick   A.   BlottChairman     and
CEOCEO@intermap.com +1 (303) 708-0955


Load-Date: August 2, 2024


  
