

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 4
                           Committee Cliff Notes: Weekly Preview - Week of February 12, 2024




         Committee Cliff Notes: Weekly Preview - Week of February 12, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          February 12, 2024 Monday 8:47 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1318 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(Rep.) -- House Majority Leader Steve Scalise, R-Louisiana, issued the following news release:

Here's what to watch for from House Republican committees during the week:

Agriculture

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Agriculture will hold a full committee hearing called "For the
Purpose of Receiving Testimony from The Honorable Thomas J. Vilsack, Secretary, U.S. Department of
Agriculture."

Armed Services

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Armed Services will hold a full committee hearing called "Outpacing
China: Expediting the Fielding of Innovation."

Budget

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on the Budget will hold a full committee hearing called "The
Congressional Budget Office's Budget and Economic Outlook."

Education and the Workforce

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Workforce Protections will hold a hearing called "Examining the
Policies and Priorities of the Wage and Hour Division."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions will hold a hearing
called "Protecting American Savers and Retirees from Dol's Regulatory Overreach."

Energy and Commerce

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 4
                      Committee Cliff Notes: Weekly Preview - Week of February 12, 2024

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Health will hold a hearing called "Legislative Proposals to
Support Patients and Caregivers."

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Energy, Climate, and Grid Security will hold a hearing called
"Powered Up: State Utility Regulators on Challenges to Reliable, Affordable Electricity."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology will hold a hearing called
"Securing Communications Networks from Foreign Adversaries."

Financial Services

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Financial Services will hold a full committee hearing called
"Oversight of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) and the Office of Terrorism and Financial
Intelligence (TFI)."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Monetary Policy will hold a hearing
called "Lender of Last Resort: Issues with the Fed Discount Window and Emergency Lending."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Digital Assets, Financial Technology and Inclusion will hold a
hearing called "Crypto Crime in Context Part II: Examining Approaches to Combat Illicit Activity."

Foreign Affairs

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will hold a full committee hearing entitled, "AUKUS
Implementation and Challenges to International Security and Arms Control in the 21st Century."

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Africa will hold a hearing called "The Future of Freedom in
Nigeria."

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa, and Central will hold a hearing
called "Iran's Proxy in Yemen: The Houthi Threat to Middle East Stability, Global Shipping, and U.S.
Servicemembers."

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will hold a full committee hearing called "Behind the
Scenes: How the Biden Administration Failed to Enforce the Doha Agreement."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere will hold a hearing called "The Agents of
Antisemitism in Latin America."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Europe will hold a hearing called "Going Nuclear on Rosatom:
Ending Global Dependence on Putin's Nuclear Energy Sector."

Homeland Security

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Emergency Management and Technology will hold a hearing
entitled "Examining Fire Hazards: Lithium-Ion Batteries and Other Threats to Fire Safety."

Judiciary

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Crime and Federal Government Surveillance will hold a hearing
called "Oversight of the United States Marshals Service."

Natural Resources

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Water, Wildlife and Fisheries will hold a legislative hearing on
the following bills:

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 4
                       Committee Cliff Notes: Weekly Preview - Week of February 12, 2024

H.R. 3119, To provide for the issuance of a Manatee Semipostal Stamp (Soto)

H.R. 6784, the ESA Flexibility Act (Stauber)

H.R. 6854, the Habitat Enhancement Now Act (Fischbach)

H.R. 7157, the Strengthen Wood Product Supply Chains Act (Duarte)

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Indian and Insular Affairs will hold an oversight hearing titled
"Economic Diversification to Create Prosperous Tribal Economies."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will hold an oversight hearing titled
"Bidenomics & Land Management: The Misguided National Strategy to Develop Environmental Economic
Decisions."

Oversight and Accountability

On Thursday, February 15, the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic will hold a hearing titled
"Assessing America's Vaccine Safety Systems, Part 1."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on National Security, the Border, and Foreign Affairs will hold a
hearing titled "The Consequences of Catch and Release at the Border."

Rules

On Tuesday, February 13, the Committee on Rules will meet on the following measure:

H.R. 7176, the Unlocking our Domestic LNG Potential Act of 2024 (Pfluger)

Science, Space, and Technology

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics will hold a hearing called "ISS and
Beyond: The Present and Future of American Low-Earth Orbit Activities."

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Science, Space, Technology will hold a full committee hearing called
"Examining Federal Science Agency Actions to Secure the U.S. Science and Technology Enterprise."

Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party

On Tuesday, February 13, the Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party will hold a hearing called
"Growing Stakes: The Bioeconomy and American National Security."

Small Business

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Small Business will hold a full committee hearing called
"Burdensome Regulations: Examining the Impact of EPA Regulations on Main Street."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Contracting and Infrastructure will hold a hearing called "Leveling
the Playing Field: Challenges Facing Small Business Contracting."

Transportation and Infrastructure

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency
Management will hold a hearing called "Disaster Readiness: Examining the Propriety of the Expanded Use of
FEMA Resources."

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit will hold a hearing called "Implementation
of Buy America Provisions: Stakeholder Perspectives."

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 4
                       Committee Cliff Notes: Weekly Preview - Week of February 12, 2024

Veterans Affairs

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Veterans Affairs will hold a full committee hearing titled, "VA's HR
Office: Did Leaders Ignore and Perpetrate Sexual Harassment?"

On Wednesday, February 14, the Committee on Veterans Affairs will hold a business meeting.

On Wednesday, February 14, the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs will hold an
oversight hearing titled, "Is VA Illegally Spending Taxpayer Dollars in its Compensation and Pension Programs?"

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Technology Modernization will hold an oversight hearing titled,
"Electronic Health Record Modernization Deep Dive: Can the Oracle Pharmacy Software Be Made Safe and
Effective?"

On Thursday, February 15, the Subcommittee on Health will hold an oversight hearing titled, "Artificial Intelligence
at VA: Exploring its Current State and Future Possibilities."

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Veterans Affairs will hold a full committee oversight hearing titled,
"Sink or Swim? A Deep Dive into the Current State of VA's Home Loan Program in a Competitive Market."

Ways and Means

On Thursday, February 15, the Committee on Ways and Means will hold a full committee hearing titled "Hearing
with Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, Daniel Werfel."

***

Original text here: https://www.majorityleader.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=2043

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8484616 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: February 12, 2024


  
