

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
   Check Point Software Technologies Transforms Email Security Again: Patented Unified Administration Boosts
                           Efficacy and Improves Productivity Innovative One-Scre....




   Check Point Software Technologies Transforms Email Security Again:
Patented Unified Administration Boosts Efficacy and Improves Productivity;
Innovative One-Screen Email Administration Solution with Advanced Threat
                        Protection Now Available
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              April 11, 2024 Thursday 6:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 904 words

Body

REDWOOD CITY, Calif., April 11, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.
(NASDAQ: CHKP), a leading AI-powered, cloud-delivered cyber security platform provider, today announced new
email security features that enhance its Check Point Harmony Email & Collaboration portfolio: Patented unified
quarantine, DMARC monitoring, archiving, and Smart Banners. Since 2023, Check Point has released over 75 new
features for Harmony Email & Collaboration, further strengthening collaborative email security with preventative
measures to combat the growing threat of cyber-attacks. The addition of these new features allows for leading
protection against advanced threats on a single screen.

Despite the rise of sophisticated cyber defense technologies, email remains the primary conduit for cyber attacks,
encompassing phishing attempts, malware, and business email compromise (BEC) scams. According to a CISA
assessment, within the first 10 minutes of receiving a malicious email, 84% of employees took the bait by either
replying with sensitive information or interacting with a spoofed link or attachment. With phishing attacks being
further enhanced by AI to make them even more convincing, it is crucial that organizations give email security top
priority.

"As a leading provider of email security solutions, we strive to consistently deliver complete security with our
Archiving and DMARC capabilities, as well as drive innovation through our recent U.S. patent for unified
quarantine," said Gil Friedrich, Vice President of Email Security. "With threat actors finding new ways to weaponize
email, we continue to pioneer a comprehensive, 360-degree security solution that proactively counters
sophisticated phishing tactics wherever they may occur."

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
   Check Point Software Technologies Transforms Email Security Again: Patented Unified Administration Boosts
                           Efficacy and Improves Productivity Innovative One-Scre....

The increasing complexity of email-based threats requires advanced protection strategies, including AI-powered
detection mechanisms. As part of the Check Point Infinity Platform, Harmony Email & Collaboration features
include:
    •    Unified Quarantine: This patented feature streamlines email management by allowing administrators and
         end-users to view and restore all quarantined emails from both Microsoft and Harmony Email through a
         single, integrated Check Point screen, simplifying the process and reducing administrative effort and
         redundant friction with end users
    •    DMARC Monitoring: Allows organizations to protect their brand reputation and prevent impersonation
         attacks on their customers and partners by maintaining a strict DMARC policy, without impacting business
         operations
    •    Archiving: Enables the storage of all internal, incoming and outgoing emails for many years, as well as
         importing archives from competitors, and to support disaster recovery and legal use cases
    •    Smart Banners: Educates users on cyber security directly within their emails, promoting policy compliance
         and enabling precise reporting of suspicious, yet subtly malicious, emails

Listen to what customers around the world are saying:

Americas: "With Check Point Harmony Email & Collaboration, we're blocking thousands more emails each month,"
says Pitor Baltakis, Manager of Infrastructure & Security for the City of Kamloops. "Any one of those emails could
have been clicked on and caused ransomware, identity theft or worse. We feel much more comfortable facing the
growing wave of phishing and BEC emails that we're seeing."

APAC: "Partnering with Check Point offered the most comprehensive and effective solution," says Kinson Chan,
Chief Executive Officer for eSix. "We chose Check Point for its strong reputation in the cybersecurity industry, ability
to offer a comprehensive security solution and its commitment to keeping pace with emerging threats."

EMEA: "Check Point has provided an easy-to-configure security environment with strong security guarantees at a
really economical price compared to other solutions," says Jose Alonso Ayllon Gutierrez, Head of New
Technologies Service for the Marbella City Council. "This allows us to grow and achieve our objects; the best
investment is in solutions that allow us to sleep at night."

To learn more about how Harmony Email                     &   Collaboration    can   protect   your    business    visit:
https://www.checkpoint.com/harmony/email-security/.

Follow         Check        Point       via:LinkedIn:    https://www.linkedin.com/company/check-point-software-
technologiesTwitter: https://www.twitter.com/checkpointswFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/checkpointsoftware
Blog: https://blog.checkpoint.com YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/CPGlobal

About Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (www.checkpoint.com) is a
leading AI-powered, cloud-delivered cyber security platform provider protecting over 100,000 organizations
worldwide. Check Point leverages the power of AI everywhere to enhance cyber security efficiency and accuracy
through its Infinity Platform, with industry-leading catch rates enabling proactive threat anticipation and smarter,
faster response times. The comprehensive platform includes cloud-delivered technologies consisting of Check Point
Harmony to secure the workspace, Check Point CloudGuard to secure the cloud, Check Point Quantum to secure
the network, and Check Point Infinity Core Services for collaborative security operations and services.
                                                 MEDIA CONTACT:                            INVESTOR
                                                                                           CONTACT:
        Ana Perez                                Kip E. Meintzer
        Check Point Software Technologies        Check Point Software Technologies

        press@checkpoint.com                     ir@checkpoint.com

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
  Check Point Software Technologies Transforms Email Security Again: Patented Unified Administration Boosts
                          Efficacy and Improves Productivity Innovative One-Scre....


Load-Date: April 11, 2024


  
