

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 4
                 Year In Review: Manchin Announces West Virginia Received $20.7 Billion In FY 2023




 Year In Review: Manchin Announces West Virginia Received $20.7 Billion In
                                FY 2023
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           January 16, 2024 Tuesday 9:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1322 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


Sen. Joe Manchin, D-West Virginia, issued the following news release:

U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV), member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced West Virginia
received $20,731,406,457 in fiscal year 2023 to support the state's priorities, communities, and families. This
includes $122 million in Congressionally Directed Spending (CDS) requests that Senator Manchin secured on
behalf of West Virginia through the funding bills from fiscal years 2022 and 2023.

"As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I advocate every day for West Virginia priorities to ensure
our people and communities receive the resources they need. I'm pleased that in 2023, West Virginia secured
nearly $23 billion in federal funding to help our seniors, spur economic development, combat the drug epidemic,
promote quality, affordable housing, expand broadband coverage across the state and much more," said Senator
Manchin. "Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act and other important legislation,
West Virginia can expect to receive more historic investments in the years to come. As we begin a new year, I look
forward to seeing the positive impacts these incredible investments will have on the Mountain State, and I will
continue to fight relentlessly to deliver for our great state."

As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Manchin helps allocate funding to federal agencies every
year. With his support, West Virginia received $12.3 billion in direct payments, which included $9.66 billion in social
security benefits and $1.15 billion for Veterans benefits.

Below is a list of highlighted federal grants that Senator Manchin secured in 2023 to help provide services for West
Virginians and grow the economy in the Mountain State.

National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)

Senator Manchin announced $1.2 billion in NTIA funding to support broadband access across the Mountain State.

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 4
              Year In Review: Manchin Announces West Virginia Received $20.7 Billion In FY 2023

U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)

Senator Manchin announced $1.1 billion in DOE funding to support infrastructure and laboratory modernization
upgrades, assess electric power systems, and grow the next generation of energy businesses in West Virginia

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)

Senator Manchin announced $356 million in EPA funding to support improving water systems, ensuring access to
clean drinking water, and assessing, cleaning up, and preparing brownfields sites for redevelopment.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)

Senator Manchin announced $280.4 million in HHS funding to improve health services for West Virginians,
especially in rural communities across the state. The funding included resources to combat the drug epidemic and
expand access to substance use disorder treatment and prevention services, as well as support Black Lung health
services.

U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE)

Senator Manchin announced $211 million in USACE funding to support critical projects strengthening our flood
prevention plans and water infrastructure.

U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)

Senator Manchin announced $195.9 million in DOT funding to upgrade West Virginia's roads, bridges, highways,
airports and public transportation to improve safety and efficiency for West Virginians and Americans traveling to
and within the state.

U.S. Department of Interior (DOI)

Senator Manchin announced $172.2 million in DOI funding to support expanding our local outdoor recreation across
the Mountain State.

Congressionally Directed Spending (CDS) Requests

Senator Manchin announced $112 million in CDS requests for vital projects across the state. As a member of the
Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Manchin works to ensure taxpayer dollars are allocated to priorities that
benefit all West Virginians, boost economic growth and support the needs of communities across the Mountain
State while remaining fiscally responsible.

U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)

Senator Manchin announced $69.6 million in HUD funding to ensure every West Virginian has access to quality,
safe, affordable housing, no matter where they live.

Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)

Senator Manchin announced $52 million in FEMA funding to address severe storms, flooding and other weather
events impacting the state, along with continued investments to reimburse costs accrued in response to the COVID-
19 pandemic. FEMA funds help ensure West Virginia is prepared for any disaster or emergency that comes our
way.

National Science Foundation (NSF)

Senator Manchin announced $37.7 million in NSF funding for groundbreaking research initiatives ranging from
neuroscience, artificial intelligence, and medical research.

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 4
              Year In Review: Manchin Announces West Virginia Received $20.7 Billion In FY 2023

U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)

Senator Manchin announced $36.4 million in USDA funding to support West Virginia's farmers, ranchers and
agricultural producers, upgrade water and wastewater infrastructure, combat food insecurity and more.

Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC)

Senator Manchin announced $30.8 million in ARC funding to strengthen economic growth throughout the state,
including through broadband expansion, job and education training and efforts to boost West Virginia's outdoor
recreation and tourism economy.

U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ)

Senator Manchin announced $28 million in DOJ funding to bolster public safety for all West Virginians, including
through promoting school safety and strengthening law enforcement capabilities.

U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA)

Senator Manchin announced $13.6 million in EDA funding to boost economic development, especially for coal
communities, create good-paying, long term jobs and promote business growth.

U.S. Department of Defense (DOD)

Senator Manchin announced $12.5 million in DOD funding to support proper planning and responses to all levels of
emergencies, crimes, and disasters.

AmeriCorps

Senator Manchin announced $9.9 million in AmeriCorps funding to meet community needs in education, the
environment, public safety, and health.

U.S. Department of Labor (DOL)

Senator Manchin announced $7.2 million in DOL funding to support education and safety programs to reduce
mining accidents, injuries and illnesses, as well as training courses to help workers secure jobs in high-demand
industries.

U.S. Department of Education

Senator Manchin announced $2.8 million in ED funding to support initiatives that strengthen our education systems
and programs for West Virginia schools and universities.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)

Senator Manchin announced $1.9 million in CDC funding to support statewide programs striving to prevent,
manage and treat diseases across the Mountain State.

National Endowment for the Arts (NEA)

Senator Manchin announced $1.1 million in NEA funding to support expanding the state's art programs.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)

Senator Manchin announced $748K in NASA funding to support research at West Virginia University, focusing on
critical technological and scientific advancements.

National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH)

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 4
              Year In Review: Manchin Announces West Virginia Received $20.7 Billion In FY 2023

Senator Manchin announced $424K in NEH funding to support the conservation of historical documents and the
modernization of the 1921 Coal Mine Wars tour at the West Virginia Mine Wars Museum.

NeighborWorks America (NeighborWorks)

Senator Manchin announced $409K in NeighborWorks funding to support developing and improving affordable
housing, providing critical community-based services and creating good-paying, long-term jobs.

U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC)

Senator Manchin announced $122K in FCC funding to expand reliable, affordable broadband and telehealth
services to promote the full participation of all West Virginians in today's digital economy.

***

Original text here: https://www.manchin.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/year-in-review-manchin-announces-
west-virginia-received-207-billion-in-fy-2023

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8445683 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 16, 2024


  
