

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
       Philippines House of Representatives: Czech Republic 's Support for PH on WPS Another Triumphant
                                Achievement of PBBM in Statecraft - Romualdez




 Philippines House of Representatives: Czech Republic's Support for PH on
 WPS Another Triumphant Achievement of PBBM in Statecraft - Romualdez
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           March 16, 2024 Saturday 9:20 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 786 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: QUEZON CITY, Philippines

Body


The Philippines House of Representatives issued the following news release on March 15, 2024:

Speaker Ferdinand Martin G. Romualdez on Friday hailed President Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. for notching yet
another triumphant achievement in statecraft that bolsters our stance on the West Philippine Sea and promises to
significantly enhance our country's defense capabilities.

This developed after Marcos secured Czech Republic President Petr Pavel's support Thursday on the South China
Sea (SCS) issue during their bilateral meeting, particularly in respecting rules-based order and ensuring free and
open navigation in the area.

Romualdez noted that among others, the two leaders discussed further strengthening cooperation in various areas
such as defense and cybersecurity, as well as the use and development of modern technologies.

"The exceptional diplomatic efforts of President Marcos paid off with the expression of full support of President
Pavel to the stance of the Philippines in defense of our right and sovereignty in the West Philippine Sea," said
Romualdez, leader of the 300-plus strong House of Representatives.

"Support from countries like the Czech Republic significantly reinforces the Philippine position and amplifies the
international voice dismissing China's sweeping claims over the area. It could also help promote a rules-based
approach to resolving maritime disputes by international law, particularly the United Nations Convention on the Law
of the Sea (UNCLOS)," Romualdez added.

Speaker Romualdez is a member of the official delegation of President Marcos for his 4-day state visit to the Czech
Republic.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
       Philippines House of Representatives: Czech Republic 's Support for PH on WPS Another Triumphant
                                Achievement of PBBM in Statecraft - Romualdez

He noted that during the joint press conference of the two leaders after their bilateral meeting, President Pavel said:
"As to South China Sea we fully support the Philippines when it comes to their entitlement to free movement of
goods and also very intense support because that's a principle that, not only we all respect but, which also secures
global and regional stability."

Pavel emphasized the crucial importance of preserving peace and stability in the region, noting that any disruption
would have adverse economic consequences not only to the Czech Republic but to the entire Europe as well.

According to estimates of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), roughly 80
percent of global trade by volume and 70 percent by value is transported by sea. Of that volume, 60 percent of
maritime trade passes through Asia, with the South China Sea carrying an estimated one-third of global shipping.

Likewise, Romualdez commended the President for his foresight in advancing discussions on enhanced
cooperation on defense, cybersecurity, and modern technologies between the Philippines and the Czech Republic.

"Such cooperation can bolster the Philippines' defense capabilities, enhance maritime security in the region, and
contribute to deterring potential threats to our sovereignty and territorial integrity in the West Philippine Sea,"
Romualdez stressed.

He pointed out that during the meeting, President Marcos also noted that the Czech Republic has been a long-time
and trusted partner in the modernization of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP).

Romualdez said Czech defense companies can help our country advance the Re-horizon 3 phase of the Revised
Armed Forces of the Philippines Modernization Program (RAFPMP) focused on improving the military's archipelagic
defense capabilities which will include the acquisition of more ships, aircraft, and radar systems.

The Speaker also said the discussions on cooperation in the field of cyber security are equally crucial in fortifying
the country's defense capabilities.

"In today's interconnected world, cybersecurity is a critical component of national security. Strengthening
cybersecurity capabilities can help safeguard both countries' critical infrastructure, protect sensitive information, and
mitigate the risks posed by cyberattacks, including those originating from state-sponsored actors," Romualdez
noted.

Likewise, Romualdez said exploring cooperation in the use and development of modern technologies between the
Philippines and the Czech Republic can lead to mutual benefits in various sectors, including defense,
telecommunications and innovation.

"Advancements in modern technologies such as AI, surveillance systems, and communication networks can
enhance the Philippines' capabilities in maritime domain awareness, intelligence gathering, and disaster response,
which are particularly relevant in the context of the South China Sea," Romualdez pointed out.

***

Original text here: https://www.congress.gov.ph/press/details.php?pressid=12981

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8534382 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 16, 2024


  
