

                                                                                Page 1 of 4
     ITU 'S AI FOR GOOD GLOBAL SUMMIT 2024 PUTS TECH TO THE TEST FOR PEOPLE AND PLANET




 ITU'S AI FOR GOOD GLOBAL SUMMIT 2024 PUTS TECH TO THE TEST FOR
                       PEOPLE AND PLANET
                                               States News Service
                                            February 1, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1530 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: GENEVA

Body


The following information was released by the International Telecommunication Union:

UN tech agency mobilizes global action to drive safe and responsible AI development

Global leaders and innovators in artificial intelligence (AI) will join the humanitarian community at the AI for Good
Global Summit 2024 in Geneva, Switzerland on 30-31 May to explore how new technology can drive sustainable
development.

This year's edition of the AI for Good summit event will showcase innovations in generative AI, robotics, and brain-
machine interfaces that can accelerate progress in areas such as climate action, accessibility, health, and disaster
response.

Summit speakers, including some of the world's foremost AI luminaries, will explore the latest breakthroughs in AI
and examine actions to ensure that AI works to humanity's benefit.

"ITU's annual AI for Good Global Summit brings together a diverse set of voices to look at the latest AI
developments and find ways to ensure this technology remains a force for good, driving inclusive growth and
sustainable and equitable progress for all," said ITU Secretary-General Doreen Bogdan-Martin. "This summit and
our year-round AI for Good platform are powerful tools for accelerating progress in our race to achieve the UN
Sustainable Development Goals by 2030."

On 29 May, discussions dedicated to AI governance will explore the surge in global efforts to craft AI policy,
regulation, and governance frameworks. AI Governance Day bringing together representatives of governments,
companies, academia, civil society, and UN agencies aims to forge pathways to transform dialogue around AI
governance into impactful action.

The UN platform for AI powered by ITU

                                                                                Page 2 of 4
     ITU 'S AI FOR GOOD GLOBAL SUMMIT 2024 PUTS TECH TO THE TEST FOR PEOPLE AND PLANET

AI for Good identifies practical applications of AI to accelerate progress toward the UN Sustainable Development
Goals and connects AI innovators with public and private-sector decision-makers to help scale up AI solutions
globally.

ITU, the UN specialized agency for information and communication technologies, organizes the yearly AI for Good
Global Summit together with 40 partner UN agencies. The event is co-convened by the Government of Switzerland.

AI for Good discussions foster international cooperation and innovation to create equitable access to new
technologies. The discussions support ITU in spurring timely policy exchanges, developing best practices and
technical standards, and catalysing partnerships for AI solutions to contribute to sustainable development.

Thought leaders and thought-controlled machines

In addition to talks by AI thought leaders, this year's summit will host machine learning masterclasses, curated by
experts for experts, covering topics from deepfakes and climate change to brain-machine interfaces, AI for public
services, explainable AI, and machine learning in communication networks.

Start-ups, young people and creatives will demonstrate their ideas at the AI for Good Innovation Factory Grand
Finale, Robotics for Good Youth Challenge, and Canvas of the Future art contest.

The summit's exhibition space will feature an array of cutting-edge demos, including AI for accessibility, collective
drone swarms, bio-inspired rescue robots, a RoboCup robot football tournament, performance-boosting
exoskeletons, and AI-inspired art.

Exhibition highlights will include demos of brain-machine interfaces an AI advancement that promises to open new
frontiers for neurotechnology. A press conference on brain-machine interfaces will highlight new technologies
enabling mind-controlled movement and communication for persons with disabilities, offering insights on how
progress in the field could impact the future of human performance, mental health, and wellbeing.

The 2024 edition of the summit comes in conjunction with the WSIS+20 Forum High-Level Event. The World
Summit on Information Society event brings together the world's digital development community to discuss concrete
actions to advance sustainable development.

The AI for Good Global Summit will take place at the International Conference Centre Geneva (CICG).

Registration for media accreditation for reporters wishing to cover the AI for Good Global Summit is open.
Registration for the public is also open and is free of charge. Registrants can attend either in person or online to
connect with an expected 2,500 participants in Geneva and over 25,000 professionals worldwide who are part of
the AI for Good Neural Network. Capacity is limited and early registration is encouraged.

Confirmed speakers include:

Doreen Bogdan-Martin - ITU Secretary-General

Geoffrey Hinton - Advisor for the Learning in Machines and Brains, Canadian Institute for Advanced Research
(presenting remotely)

Sam Altman - CEO, OpenAI (presenting remotely)

HRH Princess Beatrice - United Kingdom

Abeba Birhane - Senior Fellow in Trustworthy AI, Mozilla Foundation, Time 100 AI

Stuart Russell - Professor of Computer Science at University of California, Berkeley, and author of "Human
Compatible: Artificial Intelligence and the Problem of Control"

                                                                                Page 3 of 4
     ITU 'S AI FOR GOOD GLOBAL SUMMIT 2024 PUTS TECH TO THE TEST FOR PEOPLE AND PLANET

Daron Acemoglu - Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and New York Times
bestselling author of "Why Nations Fail: Power, Prosperity, and Poverty"

Gary Marcus - Scientist, best-selling author, and serial entrepreneur, New York University

Nicholas Thompson - CEO, The Atlantic

Fatmah Baothman - CEO, Alothaim Investment AI and RandD Company

Vincent Vanhoucke - Senior Director of Robotics, Google DeepMind

Mo Gawdat - Former Chief Business Officer at Google X, and best-selling author of "Scary Smart" and "Solve for
Happy"

See all of the AI for Good Global Summit 2024 speakers here.

Demos of robots, drones, and brain-machine interfaces include:

Mind-controlled wheelchair (Inclusive Brains)

Bio-inspired amphibious snake robot for pollution detection in lakes (EPFL)

Snake-like robot for saving disaster victims and inspecting confined spaces (RoBoa)

World's first self-stabilizing walking exoskeleton (Wandercraft)

Highly dexterous bionic hand (Esper Bionics)

Vision-controlled quadrotors for disaster response (University of Zurich)

First human-centric, multi-purpose robot for logistics (Agility Robotics)

Brain-computer interface speech-generating device (Cognixion)

Rapidly deployable life-saving sensor robots (Squishy Robotics)

Brain-controlled hand exoskeleton (Brain Center at the U.S. National Science Foundation's Industry-University
Cooperative Research Centers)

Glasses empowering blind people with more mobility (ilumen)

Social robot supporting children with neurodevelopmental disorders (Leka APF France Handicap)

The AI for Good Global Summit 2024 is supported by Immersion4 (Diamond sponsor), DLA Piper (Diamond
sponsor), AWS (Gold sponsor), Alibaba DAMO Academy (Gold sponsor), ZTE (Gold sponsor), and KUKA
(Networking sponsor).

Editor's Notes:

Journalists register here for AI for Good Global Summit 2024 media accreditation

General public registration link.

The programme is available here. Learn more about the event in this video.

Digital media kit: https://trello.com/b/Z9W21ZIA/ai-for-good-digital-media-toolkit

Link to AI for Good Neural Network: https://aiforgood.itu.int/neural-network/

                                                                                Page 4 of 4
     ITU 'S AI FOR GOOD GLOBAL SUMMIT 2024 PUTS TECH TO THE TEST FOR PEOPLE AND PLANET

Follow social media posts using the hashtag #AIforGood

About AI for Good:

The goal of AI for Good is to identify practical applications of AI to accelerate progress towards the UN Sustainable
Development Goals and connect AI innovators with public and private-sector decision-makers to help scale up AI
solutions globally. The landmark AI for Good Global Summit 2017 marked the beginning of a global dialogue on the
potential of AI to act as a force for good. The action-oriented 2018, 2019, and 2023 summits gave rise to numerous
AI for Good projects including several ITU "pre-standardization" initiativ es investigating the standardization
requirements for high-potential AI use cases. The upcoming AI for Good Global Summit 2024 (30-31 May, Geneva)
combines 2,500+ participants and online participation from the over 25,000 members of the AI-powered community
platform, the A I for Good Neural Network, making it the world's largest and most inclusive AI solutions and
matchmaking event. For more information, visit: https://aiforgood.itu.int/ .

About ITU:

The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) is the United Nations specialized agency for information and
communication technologies (ICTs), driving innovation in ICTs together with 193 Member States and a membership
of over 900 companies, universities, and international and regional organizations. Established in 1865, it is the
intergovernmental body responsible for coordinating the shared global use of the radio spectrum, promoting
international cooperation in assigning satellite orbits, improving communication infrastructure in the developing
world, and establishing the worldwide standards that foster seamless interconnection of a vast range of
communications systems. From broadband networks to cutting-edge wireless technologies, aeronautical and
maritime navigation, radio astronomy, oceanographic and satellite-based earth monitoring as well as converging
fixed-mobile phone, Internet and broadcasting technologies, ITU is committed to connecting the world. Learn more:
www.itu.int.


Load-Date: February 1, 2024


  
