

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 4
               28 Participants Complete Center for Homeland Defense & Security Emergence Program




         28 Participants Complete Center for Homeland Defense & Security
                               Emergence Program
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                             July 16, 2024 Tuesday 6:50 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1847 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: MONTEREY, California

Body


The Naval Postgraduate School's Center for Homeland Defense and Security issued the following story:

Representing agencies and organizations from the U.S. Secret Service and local law enforcement to FEMA and
emergency management, 28 participants graduated from the Center for Homeland Defense and Security's
Emergence Program on June 14 at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, CA.

The Emergence cohort 2302 graduation was the second for Emergence Program director Cynthia Renaud since
she took the program's helm last year.

From left: CHDS Interim Director Jodi Stiles, Emergence instructor Dee Neely, Emergence grad Amy Ovadia, and
Emergence Program Director Cynthia Renaud

San Francisco Public Health Emergency Preparedness & Response Healthcare Planning Lead Amy Ovadia, a
member of the cohort, said she joined Emergence because of her interest in "emerging trends impacting the world"
noting "global trends and threats are ever-evolving and are challenging," and adding that her goals were to "learn
more about the homeland security discipline and to better understand the role of Public Health in the homeland
security enterprise. In addition to making connections, I wanted to gain practical tools and techniques to help guide
how to go about initiating change in my organization."

"I care about protecting the community, I want to be a part of solving complex problems, and I understand the value
in learning from others," Ovadia said. "These all represent key elements that the Emergence Program embodies."

She said Emergence "pushed me to think about concepts I previously did not think about: How do we handle
crimes committed in the metaverse? What are the boundaries between the living and non-living world? How do we
embrace the concept of 'adapt or become extinct'? These complicated fascinating questions were triggered by
Emergence speakers, and further explored through classroom dialogue. Not only did this allow my mind to consider
complex concepts, it also allowed my mind to go places it had never been before."

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 4
              28 Participants Complete Center for Homeland Defense & Security Emergence Program

Ovadia also had high praise for her "exceptionally bright and dedicated" fellow cohort members representing a
variety of backgrounds and areas of expertise. "I felt fortunate to study alongside them," she said. "I feel confident
we can rely on each other for assistance when needed, and when disaster strikes in our jurisdiction. I am so glad
to have a robust network of new friends and cohort members to turn to during a time of need."

She said she was struck by one Emergence speaker's advice to "Be intensely curious," and said that message will
continue to resonate throughout her career.

"I will continue to embody this sentiment; there is so much to learn about emergency management and homeland
security, and I will forever continue to learn. Similarly, I am motivated to pursue leadership positions, which I
foresee taking place simultaneously with continuous learning and growth."

Fellow Emergence 2302 alumna Alexandra Lampson, who serves as Senior Program Manager of Critical
Infrastructure for the Washington DC Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency, said she applied
for the program to "deepen my understanding of the homeland security enterprise and engage with like-minded
professionals at a similar career stage."

"I was drawn to the program's reputation for its challenging nature and the opportunities it offered to collaborate on
real organizational problems," Lampson said. "As a perpetual learner, I sought a structured environment to continue
my educational journey beyond traditional academic settings. Additionally, the chance to work with esteemed
instructors, adjunct professors, and my cohort members on significant issues within our organization was
particularly appealing.

She said one of the most impactful aspects of the Emergence Program for her was the "strong sense of community
and camaraderie that developed within our cohort; building connections, forming friendships, and sharing
experiences with like-minded individuals enriched my learning journey and made the program truly memorable. The
advice, stories, and insights exchanged among cohort members were invaluable, contributing significantly to my
personal and professional growth."

Lampson said she was particularly impressed by the caliber of subject matter experts in the program, noting that
their expertise, coupled with the engaging discussions and information they shared, created a dynamic and
enriching learning environment."

"The opportunity to learn from such knowledgeable individuals not only broadened my understanding of homeland
security but also inspired me to delve deeper into the subject matter," she said. "The insights and interactions with
these experts were instrumental in shaping my experience and enhancing the overall program quality."

Moving forward with her career, Lampson called the impact of her CHDS education "profound and multifaceted."

"Primarily, the extensive network established through the program is a game-changer," she said. "The connections
established during this experience are poised to open up a realm of possibilities for my professional trajectory. The
relationships I've cultivated are not just valuable; they are transformative, offering a wealth of resources and support
that I can leverage at any point. This network provides a sense of security and a sense of boundless potential,
instilling in me the confidence that I can achieve anything with the right support system."

In addition, she said the program "broadened my horizons and challenged me to think in new and innovative ways.
By introducing fresh perspectives and encouraging us to question the status quo, it has equipped me with the tools
to approach change more effectively and make a more significant impact in the field of homeland security. The
program's guidance on personal growth, change management, and leadership has laid the foundation for me to
evolve into a more resilient, proactive, and influential professional. Overall, the Emergence Program has not only
provided me with a wealth of knowledge and skills but has also empowered me to be a catalyst for positive change
and a future leader in the realm of homeland security."

And Emergence 2302 alum Carl Amritt, who serves as Washington DC Homeland Security and Emergency
Management Agency Strategic Intelligence Bureau Chief, said he applied for the program because he "saw a need

                                                                                                      Page 3 of 4
             28 Participants Complete Center for Homeland Defense & Security Emergence Program

in my organization and was excited about the opportunity to develop and implement a solution to improve how my
agency shares information and coordinates with our local, regional, and federal partners."

"My goals in participating in the Emergence Program were both personal and professional," he said. "Personally by
deepening my knowledge on emerging homeland security issues within the field, such as the first, second, and
third-order effects of climate change on communities, the power and potential of artificial intelligence in public
safety, and root causes of violent extremism. My professional goals were to grow my skills to be an agent of change
within my organization and take an idea to the next level.

Amritt said the most impactful aspect of the program was the "blended learning format that occurred over six
months, both virtually and in person. The program is set up to allow for deep thinking about complex homeland
security issues and reflection on your career. Through the Emergence Program, I rediscovered my passion and
interest in homeland security. Many of our challenges are multifaceted and require expertise and assistance from
various subject-matter experts and practitioners from various disciplines."

He added that the Emergence Program "will undoubtedly impact my career moving forward in the forms of
professional connections I have gained from the program. This program is truly like no other and brought together
homeland security professionals working at the local, state, and federal levels and from every coast. My cohort also
had varied backgrounds, such as emergency services, military, immigration, intelligence, and public health, and
while our backgrounds were so different, we all had a shared sense of purpose. The Emergence Program was a
bonding experience I will forever carry forward."

Emergence Program cohort 2302 participants:

* Kimberlee Ables - Strategic and Crisis Communications Manager, Metro - Portland, OR

* Carl Amritt - Bureau Chief, Strategic Intelligence, DC Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency -
Washington, DC

* Caitlin Barbieri - Intergovernmental Affairs Manager, Virginia Department of Emergency Management - Richmond,
VA

* Malcolm Brown - Immigration Services Officer, DHS/USCIS - LEES SUMMIT, MO

* Hunter Corchado - Counter Terrorism, Seminole County Sheriff's Office (FL) - Sanford, FL

* Oscar Coripuna - Emergency Response Specialist, Maryland-National Capital Region Emergency Response
System - College Park, MD

* Sam Costa - Space Mission Management, Office of the Director of National Intelligence/National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency - Bethesda, MD

* Joseph Curto - Sergeant, NYPD - New York, NY

* Charles Dell - Firefighter Apprentice, Minot Air Force Base Fire Department - Minot, ND

* Mark Espiritu - Officer, California Highway Patrol - Sacramento, CA

* Jamah Figaro - Firefighter, Fire Department City of New York - Brooklyn, NY

* Matthew Furse - Uniform Services Bureau Commander, St. Petersburg Police Department - Saint Petersburg, FL

* Andrew Gibbons - Waterway Risk Assessment Officer, U.S. Coast Guard - Alexandria, VA

* Ashley Hafen Packard - Test, Training and Exercise Coordinator, Architect of the Capitol - Washington, DC

                                                                                                 Page 4 of 4
             28 Participants Complete Center for Homeland Defense & Security Emergence Program

* Kirsten Hagemann - Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of Emergency Management, Department of Energy, National
Nuclear Security Administration - Seattle, WA

* Cesar Heredia - Federal Officer, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement - Burlington, MA

* Madison Johnson - Senior Management Analyst Supervisor, Florida Department of Law Enforcement -
Tallahassee, FL

* Alexandra Lampson - Senior Program Manager - Critical Infrastructure, DC Homeland Security and Emergency
Management Agency - Washington, DC

* Allison Lukco - Sergeant, Michigan State Police - Lansing, MI

* Michael Mezhberg - Assistant Section Chief, Southeastern Massachusetts Regional 911 District - North Dighton,
MA

* Gabe Miller - Lieutenant, Nutley Fire Department - Nutley, NJ

* Amy Ovadia - Healthcare Planning Lead, San Francisco Public Health, Emergency Preparedness & Response -
San Francisco, CA

* Amy Pifine - Community Preparedness Officer, Federal Emergency Management Agency - Chicago, IL

* Raquel Pina - Border Patrol Agent, Department of Homeland Security/Border Patrol - Yuma, AZ

* Trenton Sherman - Special Agent, U.S. Secret Service - Miami, FL

* Christina Shields - Management and Program Analyst, DHS/ICE - Purcellville, VA

* Amber Shumpert - Regional Safety Officer, Alaska DOT&PF - Fairbanks, AK

* Jade Smart - Healthcare Systems Exercises and Training Manager, NYC DOHMH - New York, NY

***

Original text here: https://www.chds.us/c/emergence-2302-graduation/

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8724605 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 16, 2024


  
