

                                                                                                            Page 1 of 5
                                               AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EDT




                                      AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EDT
                                                      The Associated Press
                                           March 23, 2024 Saturday 10:04 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Associated Press All Rights Reserved

Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 2138 words

Body


Putin says gunmen who raided Moscow concert hall tried to escape to Ukraine. Kyiv denies involvement

MOSCOW — The suburban Moscow concert hall where gunmen opened fire on concertgoers was a blackened,
smoldering ruin Saturday as the death toll in the attack surpassed 130 and Russian authorities arrested four
suspects. President Vladimir Putin claimed they were captured while fleeing to Ukraine.

Kyiv strongly denied any involvement in Friday's assault on the Crocus City Hall music venue in Krasnogorsk, and
the Islamic State group's Afghanistan affiliate claimed responsibility.

Putin did not mention IS in his speech to the nation, and Kyiv accused him and other Russian politicians of falsely
linking Ukraine to the assault to stoke fervor for Russia's war in Ukraine, which recently entered its third year.

U.S. intelligence officials confirmed the claim by the IS affiliate that it was responsible for the attack, a U.S. official
told The Associated Press. U.S. intelligence agencies gathered information in recent weeks that the IS branch was
planning an attack in Moscow, and U.S. officials privately shared the intelligence with Russian officials earlier this
month, the U.S. official said. The official was briefed on the matter but was not authorized to publicly discuss the
intelligence information and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.

Putin said authorities detained a total of 11 people in the attack, which also wounded more than 100. He called it “a
bloody, barbaric terrorist act” and said Russian authorities captured the four suspects as they were trying to escape
to Ukraine through a “window” prepared for them on the Ukrainian side of the border.

___

Deadly attack on Moscow concert hall shakes Russian capital and sows doubts about security

Shocked Russians brought flowers and teddy bears Saturday to the Crocus City concert hall on the outskirts of
Moscow to pay their respects to more than 100 people who died in a grisly attack claimed by the Islamic State
group.

Mourners hung flowers on fences and piled them on the ground a short distance from the concert hall where
gunmen opened fire on a crowd and set off explosives that started a huge fire. Amid the grief, firefighters pulled
bodies from the rubble and worked to put out the flames.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 5
                                        AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EDT

Videos shared on social media showed candles and flowers being laid in memory of the dead and wounded at
monuments across Russia and at Russian embassies abroad.

The attack happened just days after Russian President Vladimir Putin cemented his grip on power by securing a
record-breaking fifth term after harshly suppressing opposition voices during a highly choreographed election. The
attack was the deadliest in Russia in years and left the concert hall a ruin.

The assault shattered nerves in Moscow and recalled memories of similar attacks that happened in the early years
of Putin's presidency. Although Islamic State claimed responsibility, Putin pointed the finger of blame at Ukraine,
where Russia is waging a war that has dragged into its third year. He cited no evidence for his claims.

___

What we know after the Islamic State group claims responsibility for Moscow massacre

WARSAW, Poland (AP) — The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for an attack on a suburban Moscow
concert hall that killed at least 133 people, the most deadly attack in Russia in years. Though the U.S. says it has
evidence backing up the jihadists' claim, that didn't stop Moscow and Kyiv from pointing the finger at each other
Saturday as the war in Ukraine rages on.

Much remains unknown about the Friday night attack, including whether it related to a security alert the U.S.
Embassy in Moscow issued two weeks earlier and whether it signals a resurgence of the group in the West.

Russia continues to investigate after detaining 11 suspects but it wasn’t possible to confirm the authenticity of
statements issued by Russian investigators.

Here is a look at some of what is known so far.

WHO CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY

___

Worldwide support pours in for Kate, the Princess of Wales, after shocking cancer reveal

LONDON (AP) — Support poured in from around the world Saturday for Kate, the Princess of Wales, after she
revealed in a candid video message that she is undergoing chemotherapy for cancer following major abdominal
surgery.

The princess's poignant video, in which she spoke about the “huge shock” and “incredibly tough couple of months”
for her family after her diagnosis, came after weeks of frenzied speculation on social media about her health and
well-being.

“This of, course, came as a huge shock, and William and I have been doing everything we can to process and
manage this privately for the sake of our young family,” Kate said in the video, which was recorded Wednesday in
Windsor.

“It has taken us time to explain everything to George, Charlotte and Louis in a way that is appropriate for them, and
to reassure them that I am going to be OK," she added, referring to her three young children.

Kate, 42, did not say what type of cancer was discovered after her surgery. She said she is now in the early stages
of preventative chemotherapy, and is “getting stronger every day.”

___

The double cancer blow to Kate and King Charles leaves Britain's royal family depleted and strained

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 5
                                         AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EDT

LONDON (AP) — The Princess of Wales’ disclosure that she has cancer and will take time off to recover leaves the
ranks of working royals depleted and strains a monarchy that King Charles III has sought to slim down.

Kate's announcement on Friday prompted an outpouring of goodwill toward her and for a royal family that’s now
facing two serious health crises. Some of the social media frenzy that has swirled in the princess’ absence from
public view may now seep away.

But with the king also being treated for an undisclosed form of cancer, and Prince William helping to care for Kate
and their children over the Easter school break, the ranks of working royals have been thinned, making the
monarchy’s future suddenly look fragile.

“This is a smaller and frailer royal family than Britain is used to,” veteran journalist Andrew Marr wrote in the New
Statesman magazine. “It scarcely seems believable that only a decade ago, people were complaining about there
being far too many members of it.”

Prince Harry is in California, estranged from his brother. Prince Andrew is in disgrace over his friendship with the
late financier Jeffrey Epstein and faced allegations of sexual abuse. So it falls to Queen Camilla and a few others to
be the public face of a monarchy that now has increased public sympathy but reduced visibility.

___

Finding money: How the Pentagon dug down and found $300M for Ukraine but is still deep in the red

WASHINGTON (AP) — Even with a budget of more than $800 billion and the ability to buy millions of weapons and
pieces of equipment every year, the Pentagon sometimes can find a few dollars in the couch cushions. Or, make
that $300 million.

For the second time in nine months, Defense Department accountants have sharpened their pencils, pored over
their books and found a way to send more military aid to Ukraine.

That $300 million figure may sound huge to ordinary citizens who struggle to pay the mortgage. But it's not for the
Pentagon. Given the vast size of the military budget, even minor savings like shaving a few dollars off every bullet
in a new contract can translate into millions of dollars.

That’s how White House and Pentagon leaders explained how they could send a new package of weapons and
equipment to Ukraine this month even though the bill to fund military aid is stalled in Congress. It was the first aid
package since late December, and the lack of U.S. weapons deliveries has caused Ukrainian troops on the front
lines to ration or run out of ammunition.

A senior defense official said the department used savings it recouped in an Army contract that came in cheaper
than planned. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss details of the process.

___

AI chatbots are here to help with your mental health, despite limited evidence they work

WASHINGTON (AP) — Download the mental health chatbot Earkick and you’re greeted by a bandana-wearing
panda who could easily fit into a kids' cartoon.

Start talking or typing about anxiety and the app generates the kind of comforting, sympathetic statements
therapists are trained to deliver. The panda might then suggest a guided breathing exercise, ways to reframe
negative thoughts or stress-management tips.

It's all part of a well-established approach used by therapists, but please don’t call it therapy, says Earkick co-
founder Karin Andrea Stephan.

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 5
                                          AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EDT

“When people call us a form of therapy, that’s OK, but we don’t want to go out there and tout it,” says Stephan, a
former professional musician and self-described serial entrepreneur. “We just don’t feel comfortable with that.”

The question of whether these artificial intelligence -based chatbots are delivering a mental health service or are
simply a new form of self-help is critical to the emerging digital health industry — and its survival.

___

Arizona expects to be back at the center of election attacks. Its top officials are going on offense

PHOENIX (AP) — The room sits behind a chain-link fence, then black iron gates. Guards block the entrance, which
requires a security badge to access. The glass surrounding it is shatterproof.

What merits all these layers of protection is somewhat surprising: tabulating machines that count the votes during
elections in Arizona’s Maricopa County. The security measures are a necessary expense, said the county recorder,
Stephen Richer, as Arizona and its largest county have become hotbeds of election misinformation and conspiracy
theories that have led to near continuous threats and harassment against election workers.

“What would be even more of a shame is if we couldn’t look the workers in the eye and say, ‘We’re doing everything
possible to make sure that you’re safe,’” he said.

Richer's job is to oversee voter registration and early voting, but ever since he took office in 2021, much of his time
has been diverted to preparing for disinformation and its consequences. The state’s razor-thin presidential outcome
in 2020 made it a national epicenter for misinformation about voter fraud, voting machine problems and phony
results.

The false claims, promoted by prominent Republicans such as presumptive presidential nominee Donald Trump
and Arizona Senate candidate Kari Lake, have driven protesters to rally outside vote-counting centers and to patrol
drop boxes. The claims have fueled death threats against election workers and their families and prompted top
election officials to quit across Arizona.

___

New England battles a mix of wind, rain, sleet and heavy snow

BOSTON (AP) — It may officially be spring, but New England was battling a wintry weather combination across the
region Saturday with more than a foot of snow expected in ski country, and rain, wind and possible flooding in
southern areas and along the coast.

In Maine the National Weather Service warned of a treacherous travel day with an increase in ice forming inland
from the coast, on top of snow or sleet that had already fallen.

Farther inland forecasters called for anywhere from 1 to 2 feet (30 to 61 centimeters) of snow across the mountains
in western Maine and areas north and in New Hampshire's White Mountains, according to Maura Casey, a lead
forecaster for the weather service, based out of Gray Maine.

In the lakes region of New Hampshire up to Maine totals were expected to be somewhat lower at 6 inches up to a
foot (15 to 30 centimeters) with sleet and freezing rain mixing in.

“There's a pretty steep cutoff with lower amounts near the coast and higher amounts in the mountains,” Casey said.

___

Fill up your gas tank and prepare to wait. Some tips to prepare for April's total solar eclipse

MISSION, Kan. (AP) — Stock up on groceries. Print off driving directions. And be very, very patient.

                                                                                                    Page 5 of 5
                                       AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EDT

Small towns and rural enclaves along the path of April's total solar eclipse are steeling for huge crowds of sun
chasers who plan to catch a glimpse of day turning into dusk in North America.

Tourism and community leaders in the path of totality from Texas to Maine have trucked in extra fuel and port-a-
potties, and urged residents and visitors to be prepared. Some counties have issued disaster declarations to get
extra help with policing and other aid, similar to the aftermath of severe storms. And in Oklahoma, the National
Guard will help.

Because of expected heavy traffic and other disruptions, hundreds of schools are closing or switching to remote
learning in states including Texas, Indiana, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont.

Look no further back than the last U.S. total solar eclipse in 2017 to understand the concern, said Tom Traub, who
is part of NASA's eclipse ambassador program.


Load-Date: March 23, 2024


  
