

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
            SBA Announces New Solicitation to Expand Funding for Regional Innovation Cluster Network




         SBA Announces New Solicitation to Expand Funding for Regional
                         Innovation Cluster Network
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            June 29, 2024 Saturday 7:20 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 833 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Small Business Administration's Office of Disaster Assistance issued the following news release on June 28,
2024:

***

Regional Innovation Clusters Will Increase Startup and Small Business Participation in U.S. Supply Chain

***

Today, Administrator Isabel Casillas Guzman, head of the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and the voice
in President Biden's Cabinet for America's more than 33 million small businesses, announced a new funding
solicitation for the SBA's Regional Innovation Cluster (RIC) Initiative that will make awards for the first time at two
funding levels: emerging and mature clusters. The RIC solicitation will open on July 1, 2024, and will close on July
26 at 1:00 PM ET.

"President Biden is delivering historic Investments in America that continue to strengthen innovation, supply chains,
and new industries, as well as spark a small business boom with 18 million new business applications filed," said
Administrator Guzman. "The SBA's Regional Innovation Cluster Initiative provides communities with funding to spur
further development of industry-focused entrepreneurship ecosystems that support small businesses developing
and commercializing critical technologies in key areas, such as developing safe, secure, and trustworthy AI. Our
two new funding levels will support both emerging and mature industry clusters and help ensure small business
innovators have access to the technical assistance, industry knowledge, and capital products necessary to start and
grow their businesses."

The SBA launched the RIC Initiative in September 2010 to promote and support the development of clusters, which
are geographically concentrated groups of interconnected businesses, suppliers, service providers, and associated
institutions in a particular industry or field across the country. Clusters act as a networking hub for small businesses,

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
           SBA Announces New Solicitation to Expand Funding for Regional Innovation Cluster Network

convening several resources to help navigate the funding, procurement, and supply-chain opportunities in a specific
industry. They also assist businesses in matching cutting-edge technology to industry needs and increase the
number of innovative small businesses and entrepreneurs in the nation's supply chain. Emerging clusters develop
and deploy small business support services in their designated regions and industries, and the RIC Initiative
enables them to scale their current and future programming to reach more small businesses. Mature clusters have
experience building and implementing programming to support small businesses, and the RIC Initiative enables
them to increase the effectiveness of programming and operations to reach more small businesses and strengthen
existing and new partnerships.

"The Office of Investment and Innovation catalyzes the development and growth of industry clusters across the
country, and the new funding levels are part of our ongoing effort to right-size our support for industry clusters
across their full life span," said Associate Administrator Bailey DeVries.

The SBA's Investment and Innovation Ecosystem Development in the Office of Investment and Innovation will host
a webinar on July 9, 2024 at 3:00 PM ET to discuss the solicitation. Interested offerors also have until July 11, 2024
at 1:00 PM ET to submit any questions related to the solicitation to RICInitiative2024@sba.gov All answers will be
posted publicly to the solicitation page.

The solicitation is available at SAM.gov. Regional Innovation Clusters are established through contracts. Eligibility
to apply is open to all non-profit and for-profit firms with an active SAM.gov registration eligible for federal contracts
at time of offer.

***

To learn more about the RIC Initiative, including current RICs, please visit: Regional Innovation Clusters | U.S.
Small Business Administration (sba.gov)

***

About SBA's Office of Investment and Innovation

The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Office of Investment and Innovation (OII) leads programs that
provide the U.S. growth-oriented small business and startup community with access to financial capital, networks,
assistance, and R &D funds to develop commercially viable innovations. Our work is underpinned by public-private
partnerships that help small businesses on their trajectory from idea to IPO.

***

About the U.S. Small Business Administration

The U.S. Small Business Administration makes the American dream of business ownership a reality. As the only
go-to resource and voice for small businesses backed by the strength of the federal government, the SBA
empowers entrepreneurs and small business owners with the resources and support they need to start, grow, or
expand their businesses, or recover from a declared disaster. It delivers services through an extensive network of
SBA field offices and partnerships with public and private organizations.

***

Original text here: https://www.sba.gov/article/2024/06/28/sba-announces-new-solicitation-expand-funding-regional-
innovation-cluster-network

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8701690 MSTRUCK

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
          SBA Announces New Solicitation to Expand Funding for Regional Innovation Cluster Network


Load-Date: June 29, 2024


  
