

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
    Reed: Supreme Court 's Decision to Overturn Chevron Decision is a Judicial Power Grab & A Blow to Public
                                         Safety and Economic Growth




 Reed: Supreme Court's Decision to Overturn Chevron Decision is a Judicial
        Power Grab & A Blow to Public Safety and Economic Growth
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                             June 28, 2024 Friday 10:47 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 434 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


Sen. Jack Reed, D-Rhode Island, issued the following news release:

Today, after the U.S. Supreme Court issued a ruling along ideological lines that overturns a landmark 40-year-old
precedent that has empowered federal agencies to protect public safety and promote economic growth - so-called
Chevron deference - U.S. Senator Jack Reed issued the following statement:

"Yet again, the Trump Court has sided with special interests over average Americans. Rolling back Chevron
upends a 40-year legal precedent that the Supreme Court has applied 70 times and the lower courts have applied
17,000 times.

"This ruling gives free rein for judges to substitute their own views in place of nonpartisan, evidence-based
rulemaking. At the stroke of a pen, any lower court judge, with no subject-matter expertise on the policy at hand,
could invalidate sensible administrative policies that have been adopted after extensive public input and feedback.

"This is not a workable system. The largest economy in the world needs predictable rules of the road. But this
decision undermines regulatory certainty that is important to economic growth.

"I don't think many Americans want judges to make decisions about their health, their safety, and consumer
protection, but that's what the Trump Court has made the new law of the land.

"Even worse, the federal government's power to perform the most important functions set out in the Constitution is
now at risk, including protecting public safety, promoting economic growth, and upholding individual rights.

"That means dirtier water and air, weaker rules against financial fraud, higher costs for healthcare, and more
dangerous conditions for workers. The federal government will be less able to effectively respond to emerging
challenges, from climate change to artificial intelligence.

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
      Reed: Supreme Court 's Decision to Overturn Chevron Decision is a Judicial Power Grab & A Blow to Public
                                           Safety and Economic Growth

"This ruling tilts the playing field in favor of special interests over the American people. The Supreme Court has
gifted regulated companies an effective veto over the rules that govern them. That is wrong.

"Trump and his Republican allies engineered a Court majority in order to throw out critical laws and precedents that
have been on the books for decades. That is not a conservative approach. That is not 'calling balls and strikes.'
That is not respecting precedent. Instead, this is activist policymaking that will court chaos and disaster."

***

Original text here: https://www.reed.senate.gov/news/releases/reed-supreme-courts-decision-to-overturn-chevron-
decision-is-a-judicial-power-grab-and-a-blow-to-public-safety-and-economic-growth

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8702336 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: June 29, 2024


  
