

                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
   Syncro Announces Seasoned MSP Leader Michael George as CEO Former Continuum CEO Brings Wealth of
                                    Experience to Drive Innovation




 Syncro Announces Seasoned MSP Leader Michael George as CEO; Former
     Continuum CEO Brings Wealth of Experience to Drive Innovation
                                                 Business Wire
                                     February 27, 2024 Tuesday 1:57 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 554 words
Dateline: SEATTLE

Body


Syncro , a B2B SaaS company serving the managed service provider (MSP) software market, today announced
technology leader Michael George as its new CEO. Syncro offers an innovative all-in-one professional services
automation (PSA) and remote monitoring and management (RMM) platform for MSPs, enabling them to better
support clients and improve profitability.

With a wealth of experience in the technology industry, George will spearhead Syncro's next phase of innovation
and growth for its widely used MSP platform. George, a seasoned veteran known for starting, building, and leading
highly innovative technology companies, most recently served as CEO of Invicti Security, a leading provider of web
app security solutions. With over 25 years' experience as CEO of various technology category leaders, George
brings extensive expertise that will drive Syncro's commitment to supporting and empowering MSPs to build highly
successful and profitable businesses.

Previously, George held the position of CEO at Continuum, a leading provider of SaaS solutions for MSPs. Under
his leadership, Continuum emerged as a category leader in the managed IT services industry, serving SMBs
through a network of MSPs. George spearheaded initiatives that fueled significant growth, driving revenues by over
500%. In addition, the company's workforce expanded substantially from 43 employees to over 1400, serving a
customer base of more than 6800 MSPs managing over 1.4 million endpoints. As CEO, George championed
various AI and automation initiatives aimed at enhancing efficiency within the MSP space, empowering MSPs to
achieve greater growth and profitability.

Paul Rouse, CEO of Rouse Consulting Group commented on George's leadership, "Syncro and its partners are
fortunate to have Michael join the company. When Michael took the helm at Continuum, he assembled an
extraordinary team that delivered on his promise to build amazing, world-class products enabling us to grow our
business. At that time as an early customer, my company had six technicians operating at breakeven. Today, we
are a team of 35 having grown revenues by more than 400% with best-in-class profitability. The fact that Michael's
team delivered a highly advanced BDR (backup, disaster and recover) solution and the first, market leading
security offering with an integrated SOC serves as testimony to his innovativeness and deep MSP experience.
There is no question that the products delivered under his leadership powered our growth and success."

                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
  Syncro Announces Seasoned MSP Leader Michael George as CEO Former Continuum CEO Brings Wealth of
                                   Experience to Drive Innovation

About Syncro

Syncro is a B2B SaaS company serving the Managed Services Provider (MSP) industry with headquarters in
Seattle. The company provides a comprehensive platform that empowers MSPs with the tools and automation they
need to run their businesses efficiently and to provide world-class IT services. Syncro's all-in-one Professional
Services Automation (PSA), Remote Monitoring and Management (RMM), and remote support software solution
helps MSPs to streamline operations and achieve business success. With refreshingly simple pricing- no contracts
and one flat fee for all features- Syncro is dedicated to empowering its MSP partners to thrive through operational
excellence, fostering growth and profitability.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240227974790/en/


CONTACT: Media
Elyse Familant
Results PR

elysef@resultspr.net


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: February 27, 2024


  
