

                                                                                             Page 1 of 2
   OAS and Vive Con Esperanza Foundation to Cooperate in Promoting Sustainable Development and Disaster
                                            Risk Management




       OAS and Vive Con Esperanza Foundation to Cooperate in Promoting
           Sustainable Development and Disaster Risk Management
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           April 10, 2024 Wednesday 8:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 495 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Organization of American States issued the following news release:

The Organization of American States (OAS), and the Vive con Esperanza Foundation will join forces to support the
2024 Continental Rally, a competition for elementary and middle schools in the Americas that promotes education
for sustainable development and disaster risk management, under the theme "Digitalizing the Future".

The competition is open to all elementary and middle schools in the Americas that wish to promote sustainable and
resilient education in their community. Interested schools should register here.

Once the competition has concluded, the OAS Executive Secretariat for Integral Development (SEDI) through its
Department of Sustainable Development (DSD) and in collaboration with the Art Museum of the Americas (AMA),
will host an interactive exhibition of entries from the 2024 Continental Rally at its headquarters in Washington, DC,
to be held from April 21 to May 2, 2025. The exhibition will be prominently displayed at the Marcus Garvey Gallery
in the OAS Main Building and on a digital platform accessible to schools across the hemisphere.

Applications for the 2024 Continental Rally regional art competition will be free and open to over 10,000 primary
and secondary schools across the Americas until August 16, 2024. Photographs and digital art, utilizing artificial
intelligence (AI), will be used to showcase the five key strategic pillars:

* health and well-being.

* equity and social inclusion.

* disaster risk management with an emphasis on school safety.

* resilience and adaptation to climate change.

                                                                                             Page 2 of 2
   OAS and Vive Con Esperanza Foundation to Cooperate in Promoting Sustainable Development and Disaster
                                            Risk Management

* entrepreneurship, and sustainable economic development.

Entries will be evaluated by a jury of representatives from international organizations and experts in sustainable
development. Winning schools will receive recognition and awards at both regional and international levels, in
addition to being integrated into the International Committee of the Vive con Esperanza Award.

The OAS invites Ministries of Education and Environment, as well as the Disaster Risk Reduction Offices in
member countries, to support this exciting initiative that links a wide variety of stakeholders, integrating the public
sector with schools, NGOs, the private sector, development funds, and civil society, all working towards a
hemispheric approach to the resilience of our communities across the Americas.

Executive Secretary Kim Osborne underscored the OAS's readiness to collaborate and strengthen synergies,
cooperation, and coordination in "harnessing the benefits of digital transformation, by promoting sustainable
development through the integration of art, innovation, and technology."

For more information on and how to participate in the 2024 Continental Rally "Digitalizing the Future please click
here (https://vivesperanza.org/).

***

Original text here: https://www.oas.org/en/media_center/press_release.asp?sCodigo=E-022/24

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8566591 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: April 10, 2024


  
