

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
           University of Brighton Students Glide Into Semis of Microsoft Diversity and Inclusion Competition




 University of Brighton Students Glide Into Semis of Microsoft Diversity and
                           Inclusion Competition
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            January 19, 2024 Friday 7:20 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 422 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: BRIGHTON, England

Body


The University of Brighton issued the following news release:

The Microsoft EDI Business Challenge is open to students from Black, Asian and Mixed Heritage across all
disciplines and levels of undergraduate study and saw 36 teams from universities across the UK take part.

The Brighton team, comprising students from the university's School of Business and Law, focused on how
innovative technology could help improve access to education for people and communities who have been
displaced by war or natural disaster.

They presented an AI-interfaced mobile application that provides, among other things, tailored content such as
language translation and lesson planning for 11 to 18-year-olds of all educational levels.

Team Brighton's impressive showing earned them a win on their first appearance in the competition, sponsored by
Microsoft Embrace. As a result, they are among ten teams from universities across the UK who have progressed to
the semi-finals.

Members of the Brighton team are studying law, marketing, management and international business management
courses at the university's School of Business and Law, based at its Moulsecoomb campus.

Naomi Spence, who is studying Marketing Management BSc(Hons), said: "We were tasked with leveraging
technology to aid a problem that displaced people face. Our team was successful in Round 1 and have secured a
spot in the top 10 semi-finals where we will be going head-to-head with the likes of other universities such as
Queen Mary, Surrey, Manchester and more. We are so excited and looking forward. Fingers crossed!".

The team is being supported and mentored by Principal Lecturer Dr Hasan Gilani, who highlights: "The EDI
challenge group from the School of Business and Law have shown their true commitment to the project and
demonstrate great teamwork and emerging leadership skills.

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
         University of Brighton Students Glide Into Semis of Microsoft Diversity and Inclusion Competition

"I would like to congratulate and commend them all on their achievement. Well done team. You make us proud. But
the challenge continues, and you have our best wishes for the semi-finals and finals - Go, Team Brighton!" - he
added.

Having emerged winners in the first round, Team Brighton will be competing in the semi-finals with another
opportunity to display their problem-solving, teamwork and leadership qualities. The semi-final of the competition is
scheduled for the first quarter of 2024.

***

Original text here: https://www.brighton.ac.uk/news/2024/brighton-students-glide-into-semis-of-microsoft-diversity-
and-inclusion-competition

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8450267 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 19, 2024


  
