

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 5
                                                AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EST




                                      AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EST
                                                      The Associated Press
                                              March 8, 2024 Friday 11:04 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Associated Press All Rights Reserved

Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 2148 words

Body


It's not just Israeli bombs that have killed children in Gaza. Now some are dying of hunger too

RAFAH, Gaza Strip — It’s not just Israeli bombs that have killed children in war-ravaged Gaza — now some are
dying of hunger.

Officials have been warning for months that Israel’s siege and offensive were pushing the Palestinian territory into
famine.

Hunger is most acute in northern Gaza, which has been isolated by Israeli forces and has suffered long cutoffs of
food supplies. At least 20 people have died from malnutrition and dehydration at the north’s Kamal Adwan and
Shifa hospitals, according to the Health Ministry. Most of the dead are children — including ones as old as 15 — as
well as a 72-year-old man.

Particularly vulnerable children are also beginning to succumb in the south, where access to aid is more regular.

At the Emirati Hospital in Rafah, 16 premature babies have died of malnutrition-related causes over the past five
weeks, one of the senior doctors told The Associated Press.

___

A ship with Gaza aid is preparing to inaugurate a sea route from Cyprus to the war-ravaged strip

LARNACA, Cyprus (AP) — A ship bearing humanitarian aid was making preparations to leave Cyprus and head for
Gaza, the European Commission president said Friday as international donors launched a sea corridor to supply
the besieged territory that is facing widespread hunger after five months of war.

The opening of the corridor, along with the recent inauguration of airdrops of aid, showed increasing frustration with
the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and a new international willingness to work around Israeli restrictions.

The vessel belonging to Spain’s Open Arms aid group will make a pilot voyage to test the corridor in the coming
days, Ursula von der Leyen told reporters in Cyprus, where she's inspecting preparations for it. The ship has been
waiting at Cyprus’s port of Larnaca for permission to deliver food aid from World Central Kitchen, a U.S. charity
founded by celebrity chef José Andrés.

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 5
                                          AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EST

Israel said Friday it welcomed the maritime corridor. But cautioned it would also need security checks.

“The Cypriot initiative will allow the increase of humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip, after a security check according
to Israeli standards,” Lior Haiat, spokesperson for Israel’s foreign ministry, said on X, formerly Twitter.

___

RNC votes to install Donald Trump's handpicked chair as former president tightens control of party

HOUSTON (AP) — The Republican National Committee voted Friday to install Donald Trump’s handpicked
leadership team, completing his takeover of the national party as the former president closes in on a third straight
presidential nomination.

Michael Whatley, a North Carolina Republican who has echoed Trump’s false theories of voter fraud, was elected
the party’s new national chairman in a vote Friday morning in Houston. Lara Trump, the former president’s
daughter-in-law, was voted in as co-chair.

Trump’s team is promising not to use the RNC to pay his mounting personal legal bills. But Trump and his
lieutenants will have firm control of the party’s political and fundraising machinery with limited, if any, internal
pushback.

“The RNC is going to be the vanguard of a movement that will work tirelessly every single day to elect our nominee,
Donald J. Trump, as the 47th President of the United States,” Whatley told RNC members in a speech after being
elected.

Whatley will carry the top title, replacing longtime chair Ronna McDaniel after she fell out of favor with key figures in
the former president’s “Make America Great Again” movement. But he will be surrounded by people closer to
Trump.

___

Trump attorneys post $92 million bond to support jury award to E. Jean Carroll in defamation suit

NEW YORK (AP) — Donald Trump has secured a $91.6 million bond sufficient to cover the money he owes to
writer E. Jean Carroll in a defamation lawsuit while he appeals the jury's verdict, the former president’s lawyer told a
court on Friday.

Attorney Alina Habba filed papers with the New York judge to show that Trump had secured the bond from the
Federal Insurance Co., a unit of the insurance giant Chubb. The bond would cover the $83.3 million judgement in
the lawsuit, plus interest.

Habba simultaneously filed a notice showing Trump, the likely 2024 Republican presidential nominee, is appealing
the verdict. The posting of the bond was a necessary step to delay payment of the award until the 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals can rule on Trump's legal challenge.

The filings came a day after Judge Lewis A. Kaplan refused to delay a Monday deadline for posting a bond to
ensure that Carroll, 80, can collect the judgement if it remains intact following appeals.

Trump faces financial pressure to set aside money to cover both the judgment in the Carroll case and an even
bigger one in a lawsuit in which he was found liable for lying about his wealth in financial statements given to banks.

___

Foreigners trapped in violence-torn Haiti wait desperately for a way out

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 5
                                         AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EST

SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) — Dozens of foreigners, including many from the U.S. and Canada, are stranded in
Haiti, desperately trying to leave the violence-torn country where anti-government gangs are battling police and
have already shut down both of the country's international airports.

They were in Haiti for reasons ranging from adoptions to missionary and humanitarian work. Now, they are locked
down in hotels and homes, unable to leave by air, sea or land as Haiti remains paralyzed by the mayhem and the
gangs' demands that Prime Minister Ariel Henry resign.

“We are seriously trapped,” said Richard Phillips, a 65-year-old from the Canadian capital, Ottawa, who has
traveled to Haiti more than three dozen times to work on projects for the U.N., USAID and now, a Haitian nonprofit
called Papyrus.

After arriving in Haiti in late February, Phillips flew to the southern coastal city of Les Cayes to teach farmers and
others how to operate and repair tractors, cultivators, planters and other machinery in an area known for its corn,
rice, peas and beans.

Once his work was done, Phillips flew to the capital, Port-au-Prince, only to find that his flight had been canceled.
He stayed at a nearby hotel, but the gunfire was relentless, so moved on to a safer area.

___

Former president of Honduras convicted in US of aiding drug traffickers

NEW YORK (AP) — Former Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez was convicted Friday in New York of
charges that he conspired with drug traffickers and used his military and national police force to enable tons of
cocaine to make it unhindered into the United States.

The jury returned its verdict at a federal court after a two-week trial, which has been closely followed in his home
country. Hernandez was convicted of conspiring to import cocaine into the U.S. and two weapons counts. The
charges carry a mandatory minimum of 40 years in prison and a potential maximum of life. Sentencing was set for
June 26.

Hernandez, 55, who served two terms as the leader of the Central American nation of roughly 10 million people,
patted a defense attorney, Renato Stabile, on the back as they stood along with everyone else in the courtroom
while the jurors filed out after the reading of the verdict.

When the news reached nearly 100 opponents of Hernandez on the street outside the courthouse, they applauded
and began jumping into the air to celebrate the outcome.

The scene in the courtroom was subdued and Hernandez seemed relaxed as the verdict on three counts was
announced by the jury foreperson. At times, Hernandez had his hands folded before him or one leg crossed over
the other as each juror was asked to affirm the verdict. They all did.

___

The NYPD is using social media to target critics. That brings its own set of worries

NEW YORK (AP) — The first “NYPD: Most Wanted” video was meant to be intimidating.

Over a pounding soundtrack, the montage cuts among stock images and body-camera footage of actual police
raids. A fake gun discharges. Real officers break down a door, barking orders at a man asleep on a couch.

As a key turns in a jail cell lock, a New York City police deputy appears on screen to announce the arrest of a
teenage suspect — not the person seen in the video moments earlier — in a shooting on a Bronx subway platform.

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 5
                                         AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EST

Produced in-house by the New York Police Department and promoted across its official social media channels, the
dramatic two-minute clip reflects a concerted effort by the nation’s largest police force to engage the public and
influence policy through a more aggressive online presence.

The strategic shift has brought criticism from former NYPD officials and civil liberties groups who say police leaders
shouldn’t use public resources to advance their own policy agenda or attack other civil servants. But the NYPD
hasn’t backed down.

___

Biden in a hot mic moment shows his growing frustration with Netanyahu over Gaza humanitarian crisis

WASHINGTON (AP) — President Joe Biden 's growing frustration with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
continues to mount, with the Democrat captured on a hot mic saying that he and the Israeli leader will need to have
a “come to Jesus meeting.”

The comments by Biden came as he spoke with Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., on the floor of the House chamber
following Thursday night's State of the Union address.

In the exchange, Bennet congratulates Biden on his speech and urges the president to keep pressing Netanyahu
on growing humanitarian concerns in Gaza. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Transportation Secretary Pete
Buttigieg were also part of the brief conversation.

Biden then responds using Netanyahu's nickname, saying, “I told him, Bibi, and don’t repeat this, but you and I are
going to have a ‘come to Jesus’ meeting.”

An aide to the president standing nearby then speaks quietly into the president’s ear, appearing to alert Biden that
microphones remained on as he worked the room.

___

OpenAI has 'full confidence' in CEO Sam Altman after investigation, reinstates him to board

OpenAI is reinstating CEO Sam Altman to its board of directors and said it has “full confidence” in his leadership
after an outside investigation into the turmoil that led the company to abruptly fire and rehire him in November.

OpenAI said the investigation by the law firm WilmerHale concluded that Altman’s ouster was a “consequence of a
breakdown in the relationship and loss of trust” between Altman and the prior board.

The ChatGPT maker also said it has added three women to its board of directors: Dr. Sue Desmond-Hellman, a
former CEO of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; Nicole Seligman, a former Sony general counsel; and
Instacart CEO Fidji Simo.

The actions are a way for the San Francisco-based artificial intelligence company to show investors and
customers that it is trying to move past the internal conflicts that nearly destroyed it last year and made global
headlines.

For more than three months, OpenAI said little about what led its then-board of directors to fire Altman on Nov. 17.
An announcement that day said Altman was “not consistently candid in his communications” in a way that hindered
the board’s ability to exercise its responsibilities. He also was kicked off the board, along with its chairman, Greg
Brockman, who responded by quitting his job as the company's president.

___

Much of America asks: Where did winter go? Spring starts early as US winter was warmest on record

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 5
                                         AP News in Brief at 6:04 p.m. EST

Across much of America and especially in the normally chilly north, the country went through the winter months
without, well, winter.

In parka strongholds Burlington, Vermont, and Portland, Maine, the thermometer never plunged below zero. The
state of Minnesota called the last three months “the lost winter,” warmer than its infamous “year without a winter” in
1877-1878. Michigan, where mosquitos were biting in February, offered disaster loans to businesses hit by a lack
of snow. The Great Lakes set records for low winter ice, with Erie and Ontario “essentially ice-free.”

For a wide swath of the country from Colorado to New Jersey, and Texas to the Carolinas, spring leaves are
arriving three to four weeks earlier than the 1991-2020 average, according to the National Phenology Network,
which tracks the timing of plants, insects and other natural signs of the seasons.

“Long-term warming combined with El Nino conspired to make winter not show up in the U.S. this year,” said Yale
Climate Connections meteorologist Jeff Masters, who co-founded the private firm Weather Underground. Masters
said he was bitten by a mosquito in Michigan this year, which he called crazy.

On Friday, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration confirmed that the winter of 2023-2024 was the
warmest in nearly 130 years of record-keeping for the United States. The Lower 48 states averaged 37.6 degrees
(3.1 degrees Celsius), which is 5.4 degrees (3 degrees Celsius) above average.


Load-Date: March 8, 2024


  
