

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 2
               Nasuni Launches New Brand Identity, Marking Next Era for Hybrid Cloud Storage Leader




   Nasuni Launches New Brand Identity, Marking Next Era for Hybrid Cloud
                            Storage Leader
                                                           PR Newswire
                                             June 4, 2024 Tuesday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1169 words
Dateline: BOSTON, June 4, 2024

Body


PR NewswireAmbitious Growth Plan, State of the Market, and Continuous Product Innovation Drive Reimagined
BrandingBOSTON, June 4, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Nasuni, a leading enterprise data platform for hybrid cloud
environments, announced the major repositioning of its entire brand identity, underpinned by the overall growth of
the business and its continuous product innovation and versatility. New visuals, alongside refined messaging to
align with its vision, will support Nasuni's high-growth journey as a best-in-class data platform for enterprises
requiring scale in hybrid cloud environments, safeguards against cyberattacks, and data management for AI use-
cases.Chief Marketing Officer Asim Zaheer at Nasuni, who led this branding initiative and has a portfolio of others
including Hitachi Ventara, commented: "A brand identity is so much more than logos and colors – it's the foundation
of everything that represents a company and embodies its key values. Nasuni's rebrand reflects a modern identity
for a modern product, keeping pace with the company's technological innovation. Additionally, this initiative
encompasses the insights provided from our customers, industry experts, and top analyst firms."Today's
infrastructure teams are reckoning with an explosion of unstructured data, a market shift to hybrid environments,
and an inability to get the most value out of their data.

According toGartner, an estimated 60% of enterprise data will be hybrid by 2027, up from 20% in 2023. This rapid
rate of infrastructure change in the market demands a fluid and flexible approach, which was instrumental to the
company's reimagined brand.Velocity Partners CEO Stan Woods, who collaborated with Nasuni on the new
branding, commented: "A clear, compelling brand runs circles around a weak, unfocused brand every day of every
week. Nasuni has combined a terrific brand story with its already strong tech advantage. The idea was to showcase
new possibilities for infrastructure leaders, something so many Nasuni customers are already experiencing. It's
been fun to work with such a knowledgeable and motivated team in putting this new brand together."Nasuni's new
look and feel highlights an industry shift from rigid, hardware-based NAS solutions to more fluid, software-defined
storage orchestrations in the hybrid cloud era. This notion builds on Nasuni's legacy and reflects on its values
around innovation and trust, while also modernizing key elements to showcase users' current and future needs. In
addition, the Nasuni File Data Platform has evolved a great deal in recent years, and the new branding highlights
that level of evolution within the product. Nasuni's branding initiative includes a website redesign, brand messaging,
visuals, and logo refresh. Details below:Logo: The new logo is a symbol of the Nasuni brand essence, crafted into a
single, horizontal design. Nasuni held tight to the idea of 'three' to represent the company's preeminent product
value pillars: effortless scalability, built-in security, and fast edge performance.Logomark: For use in very small
contexts, Nasuni distills its stylized "N" from the logo as a representation of the company. This distinctive logomark

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
             Nasuni Launches New Brand Identity, Marking Next Era for Hybrid Cloud Storage Leader

enhances Nasuni's visibility across digital networks and reinforces its position as a confident, fresh, and authentic
voice in the hybrid cloud market.Visual Language: Nasuni's distinctive visual language is a reflection of the fluid and
flexible way to manage data and is defined by confidence, boldness, and instant recognizability. It communicates
forward-thinking innovation, delivering a strategic advantage and attracting customers in a competitive
landscape.Liquid Flow: Using a high-impact, fluid design, the splash of liquid represents data that should flow easily
and be available securely anywhere and at any time. In addition, the green within the fluid element is a nod to
Nasuni's legacy green color palette.Graphical: The hexagon serves as a visual metaphor for the strength,
efficiency, and services Nasuni offers, providing a solid boundary for the ever-evolving 'fluid' data. Together, the two
elements represent the balance between data management and the fluid nature of data itself. It's a testament to our
approach: Stable, yet flexible. Grounded in reliability, but always flowing.David Grant, president at Nasuni, added:
"Since our inception, Nasuni's differentiator and main focus has been its customers, employees, and products. As
we enter our next stage as a high-growth company, our refreshed brand represents the fluid nature of data
infrastructure for a rapidly evolving hybrid AI world. Our file data platform is the key to managing cost, delivering
outstanding data performance, providing world-class data protection, and enabling AI innovation. Our new brand
communicates this more simply and succinctly."This announcement follows another year of rapid growth for Nasuni,
which added more than120+ new large enterprisecustomersacross all verticals. Nasuni's product innovation is
helping drive its strong momentum, including the recent launch ofNasuni Edge for Amazon S3 to deliver high
performance at the edgeandNasuni IQ to help enterprises unlock data silos for AI services. Nasuni has also made
the following key leadership appointments in the past year:Michael Sotnickto Senior Vice President of Business and
Corporate Development; Nick Burling to Senior Vice President of Product;Matthew Granthamto Head of Worldwide
Partners;Jim Liddleto Chief Innovation Officer; Russ Kennedy to Chief Evangelist; and Asim Zaheer to Chief
Marketing Officer.For more information about Nasuni's brand refresh, check out thenew website. You can also read
an official statement authored by Nasuni Chief Marketing Officer Asim Zaheerhere.About Nasuni

Nasuni is a fluid data platform for enterprises facing an explosion of unstructured data in an AI world. The Nasuni
File Data Platform delivers effortless scale in hybrid cloud environments, enables control at the network edge, and
meets the modern enterprise expectation for insight- and AI-ready data. It simplifies file data management while
increasing storage access and performance. Its best-in-class file recovery protects customers against a range of
cyber threats and eliminates the need for specialized backup and disaster recovery – all while cutting the cost of
infrastructure by up to 65%.Organizations worldwide rely on Nasuni, spanning across the manufacturing,
construction, energy, consumer goods, and public sectors. Nasuni's corporate headquarters is located in Boston,
Massachusetts, and the company delivers services to over 70 countries. For more information,
visitwww.nasuni.com.Media ContactsUS: Jessica Luhrman
Waters Agency
Phone: (210) 273 0914
Email:UK/Europe: Maria Loupa
Waters Agency
Phone: +44 (0)7591 004 738
Email: View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nasuni-launches-
new-brand-identity-marking-next-era-for-hybrid-cloud-storage-leader-302162526.htmlSOURCE Nasuni


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
