

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 2
                               Arturo Taps Insurtech Titan Jeff Taylor as Chief Strategy Officer




           Arturo Taps Insurtech Titan Jeff Taylor as Chief Strategy Officer
                                                        Business Wire
                                         February 22, 2024 Thursday 4:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 579 words
Dateline: DENVER

Body


Arturo , the property intelligence company that delivers portfolio-wide underwriting, risk, claims and catastrophe-
driven event insights, announces the appointment of Jeffrey Taylor as Chief Strategy Officer. This appointment
comes as Arturo prepares to expand into adjacent markets and further deliver on its mission to provide actionable
property intelligence and risk profiles that better protect our world.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.                  View       the       full   release       here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240222872462/en/

Jeff Taylor, Chief Strategy Officer at Arturo (Photo: Business Wire)

Taylor has hit the ground running and has already made an impact on product development and partnerships, both
with an eye for greater penetration and adoption in the insurance industry as well as expansion within the greater
property ecosystem. Taylor brings a great deal of experience to this role, having worked at Xactware from 1992 to
2007 which was subsequently acquired by Verisk, where he remained until 2023. In those years, he served in a
variety of leadership roles as President of 3D Visual Intelligence, President of Geomni, Vice President of Geospatial
Solutions, and Vice President for Xactimate.

"There are great headwinds plaguing the P&C insurance industry. Climate change has made it much harder to
measure risk today, and legacy systems and outdated datasets are not helping. Today's insurance customers want
what anyone wants: clarity, a fair price, fast service, and to be made whole, but the aforementioned problems are
holding the industry back from meeting those expectations," said Taylor. "That's why I'm excited about this
opportunity. Arturo has a lot of potential with their strong foundation of accurate, fast property intelligence. And it's
not data in a vacuum; it has a proven record of helping carriers do everything from alleviating the burden on
customers at quote to getting people help faster than ever before in the wake of some of the most catastrophic
natural disasters."

In addition to his years pioneering some of the keystone solutions of the insurance industry, especially as it relates
to real property, his career includes several construction industry years with Home Depot managing large custom
home projects and as a roofer. This hands-on and up-close experience with property degradation and repairs brings
a unique lens to Arturo's specialty in remote analysis of property conditions, especially after a natural disaster.
Taylor's appointment solidifies the strides Arturo has taken in expanding their offering to assist with claims and
catastrophe response.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
                          Arturo Taps Insurtech Titan Jeff Taylor as Chief Strategy Officer

"In our industry, there isn't a more respected or experienced person than Jeff. Jeff has a tremendous track record
and has led many transformational movements within insurtech. We are thrilled to have him join our team and help
lead Arturo into the future," said Marty Smuin, CEO at Arturo.

Jeff recently served on the board of Vexcel Imaging and is active in several charitable organizations, including the
Primary Children's Hospital in Utah.

About Arturo

Arturo's AI-based solution helps insurers securely underwrite risks, efficiently allocate resources, and lower claims
cost across their book of business, allowing them to focus on what matters most: the customer, and our shared
commitment to protecting our world. See more about what Arturo can do at arturo.ai.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240222872462/en/


CONTACT: Media Contact
Anna Stallmann Communications

media@annacomms.com
704-218-9362


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


Jeff Taylor, Chief Strategy Officer at Arturo (Photo: Business Wire)


Load-Date: February 22, 2024


  
