

                                                                                               Page 1 of 3
      Pure Storage Platform Arms Enterprises in Fight Against Ransomware with Groundbreaking New Cyber
                                     Resiliency Services and Capabilities




 Pure Storage Platform Arms Enterprises in Fight Against Ransomware with
      Groundbreaking New Cyber Resiliency Services and Capabilities
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           June 19, 2024 Wednesday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1313 words
Dateline: LAS VEGAS, June 19, 2024

Body


PR NewswireExtends STaaS leadership, now with 10 concurrent SLAs, the industry's most comprehensive set of
service level agreements

LAS VEGAS, June 19, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Pure Storage//Accelerate -- Pure Storage® (NYSE: PSTG), the IT
pioneer that delivers the world's most advanced data storage technology and services, today announced three new
advanced Storage as-a-Service (STaaS) service-level agreements (SLAs) for the Pure Storage platform - cyber
recovery and resilience and site rebalance - further empowering organizations to guarantee outcomes and reduce
risk in their critical data infrastructure.

 AI is revolutionizing business, and not always for the better. Cyber criminals are increasingly using AI to increase
the frequency and impact of cyber attacks, especially ransomware. However, existing IT infrastructure generally
lacks flexibility to react to the rapid pace of change required to protect data, and rapidly recover if needed.The Pure
Storage platform delivers agility and risk reduction to organizations with a simple, consistent storage platform and
an as-a-service experience for the broadest set of use cases across on-premises, public cloud, and hosted
environments. At the heart of the platform, the often imitated but never duplicated Evergreen® architecture brings
continuous and non-disruptive upgrades helping enterprises adapt to dynamic business environments. With the
industry's record number of concurrent SLAs, customers get the reliability, performance, and sustainability their
business requires.Further advancing Pure's existing cyber resiliency offerings, includingSafeModefor ransomware
recovery, today, Pure announced new innovations enabled by the platform including:Enhanced Cyber Recovery
and Resilience SLA: Building on the first-of-its-kind ransomware recovery SLA, Evergreen//One™ is expanding its
coverage to include disaster recovery scenarios as well. This new and improved Cyber Recovery and Resilience
SLA delivers a customized recovery plan, ships clean service infrastructure within a defined SLA, provides onsite
installation, and supplies additional professional services for data transfer. In addition, Pure will collaborate with
organizations to build and maintain a comprehensive cybersecurity strategy. Ongoing quarterly reviews are
included to ensure best practices adherence, ongoing risk assessments, and operational security remediation.
Organizations can rest assured knowing if an unforeseen disruptive event occurs, Pure will help rapidly restore
normal operations, guaranteed. New Security Assessment: The new assessment provides deep visibility into fleet-
level security risks and offers actionable recommendations to maximize cyber resilience. Based on aggregated
intelligence across 10,000+ environments, the Security Assessment presents numerical scores from 0 to 5 to

                                                                                               Page 2 of 3
      Pure Storage Platform Arms Enterprises in Fight Against Ransomware with Groundbreaking New Cyber
                                     Resiliency Services and Capabilities

benchmark the security posture of the entire storage fleet. It also delivers best practices to align with NIST 2.0
standards, advance regulatory compliance, remediate potential security anomalies, and rapidly restore operations if
a security-related event occurs. Additionally, the new AI copilot leverages the security assessment to provide Chief
Information Security Officers (CISOs) with the visibility into benchmarking their security posture against other Pure
Storage customers.New AI-Powered Anomaly Detection Enhancement: Discover threats such as ransomware
attacks, unusual activity, malicious behavior, and Denial of Service attacks via performance anomalies. This
expands on previously available ransomware detection based on data reduction anomalies. The expanded
detection is built on multiple machine learning models running to identify unusual anomalous behavior. The models
analyze customer environments with historical data for anomalous patterns based on heuristics of performance as
well as user context on how storage is used. Leveraging this capability, customers can identify the last known good
snapshot copy to mitigate operational impact by quickly identifying recovery point targets to restore data, reducing
risk and guesswork.In today's dynamic market and competitive landscape, it is imperative for IT to be able to rapidly
adapt. As the only STaaS solution that allows both scaling up and down the service, today Pure Storage further
distanced itself by providing even more flexibility:New Site Rebalance SLA: The Evergreen//One Site Rebalance
SLA delivers service flexibility for organizations looking to adjust existing reserve commitments as their storage
requirements evolve. If there are no longer capacity needs at a specific site, if a data center is being consolidated,
or if performance at one site was oversized and excess capacity exists that can be used elsewhere, the Site
Rebalance SLA empowers organizations to rebalance reserve commitments once every 12 months for each
Evergreen//One subscription."As Pure Storage continues to revolutionize enterprise data storage, our mission
remains: to provide a simple, flexible, and resilient as-a-service storage platform that not only addresses current
data and storage management needs, but mitigates future risk and uncertainty. Through continuously improving
services and the broadest set of outcome-driven SLAs, Pure is the only data storage platform future-proofed for
innovation."—Prakash Darji, GM, Digital Experience, Pure Storage"Today's enterprises demand more than just
technology; they seek assured outcomes. Reliable, flexible consumption models for enterprise storage that scale
with business needs are essential. Pure Storage's STaaS platform offers a market differentiating, comprehensive
set of guaranteed SLAs, striking a balance between flexibility and simplicity while delivering high performance and
resilience - all in support of customer growth in today's dynamic business landscape."—Lara Greden, Senior
Research Director, IT Infrastructure as-a-Service Solutions, Flexible Consumption, and Circular Economy,
IDCAlso Announced Today at Pure //Accelerate:Industry-First Innovations in the Pure Storage Platform Help
Customers Keep Pace with AI's Rapid EvolutionLearn More:Blog: Tackle AI and Cyber Resiliency w/ Industry-first
InnovationsAbout Pure StoragePure Storage (NYSE: PSTG) delivers the industry's most advanced data storage
platform to store, manage, and protect the world's data at any scale. With Pure Storage, organizations have
ultimate simplicity and flexibility, saving time, money, and energy. From AI to archive, Pure Storage delivers a cloud
experience with one unified Storage as-a-Service platform across on premises, cloud, and hosted environments.
Our platform is built on our Evergreen architecture that evolves with your business – always getting newer and
better with zero planned downtime, guaranteed. Our customers are actively increasing their capacity and
processing power while significantly reducing their carbon and energy footprint. It's easy to fall in love with Pure
Storage, as evidenced by the highest Net Promoter Score in the industry. For more information,
visit www.purestorage.com.Pure Storage, the Pure Storage P Logo, Evergreen, Evergreen//One, Pure1 and the
marks on the Pure Storage Trademark List are trademarks or registered trademarks of Pure Storage Inc. in the U.S.
and/or other countries. The Trademark List can be found atpurestorage.com/trademarks. Other names may be
trademarks of their respective owners.Analyst Recognition:Leader in the 2023 Gartner Magic Quadrant for
Primary Storage

Leader in the 2023 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Distributed File Systems & Object StorageConnect with Pure Blog
LinkedIn
X
Facebook View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pure-storage-
platform-arms-enterprises-in-fight-against-ransomware-with-groundbreaking-new-cyber-resiliency-services-and-
capabilities-302176185.htmlSOURCE Pure Storage

                                                                                              Page 3 of 3
     Pure Storage Platform Arms Enterprises in Fight Against Ransomware with Groundbreaking New Cyber
                                    Resiliency Services and Capabilities


Load-Date: June 19, 2024


  
