

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
     APEC Businesses Call for Greater Action Amid Insufficient Economic Growth and Increasing Climate Risk




      APEC Businesses Call for Greater Action Amid Insufficient Economic
                    Growth and Increasing Climate Risk
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            August 6, 2024 Tuesday 8:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 595 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: SINGAPORE

Body


The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, an inter-governmental forum that says it aims to support sustainable
economic growth and prosperity in the 21 member countries, issued the following news release on Aug. 5, 2024:

The APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC) concluded its meeting in Tokyo this week, calling for decisive action
to boost trade, digitalization and climate response.

"Tackling trade and investment barriers, promoting digitalization and accelerating the climate response is urgent.
We can't wait any longer" said Julia Torreblanca, the 2024 Chair of ABAC.

In that regard, Torreblanca announced that ABAC has finalized its recommendations for APEC Leaders addressing
these challenges, under its' theme for this year, 'People, Business, and Prosperity,' to be formally presented during
the APEC Economic Leaders' Week taking place November in Lima, Peru. ABAC also prepared detailed
recommendations to Ministers of Finance, Health, Energy, Food Security, and Small and Medium Enterprises.

"Achieving our goals requires a seamless commercial environment built on strong foundations. APEC needs to
make the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific a reality, and ensure that the World Trade Organization (WTO)
remains relevant and effective", said Torreblanca.

"All APEC economies should join the new WTO E-commerce Agreement, which prevents the use of tariffs on digital
trade and lays a critical foundation."

Torreblanca also highlighted the need for a renewed APEC Investment Facilitation Agenda and enhanced supply
chain cooperation.

"Another key focus of ABAC is on boosting interoperable digitalization in our region and enabling small businesses
to access digital tools like interoperable paperless trade and artificial intelligence (AI). All this, within an AI
framework that maximizes benefits while mitigating the risks, particularly for workers," she added.

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
      APEC Businesses Call for Greater Action Amid Insufficient Economic Growth and Increasing Climate Risk

"We have also identified concrete actions to enable micro, small and medium enterprises, especially those led by
women and Indigenous entrepreneurs, as well as those in the informal economy, to succeed," Torreblanca noted.

Lastly, addressing the climate crisis, Torreblanca called for urgent collective action to ensure sustainable and
resilient growth.

"The world has now experienced over 12 consecutive months of temperatures exceeding 1.5 degrees above pre-
industrial levels. Public-private sector collaboration will be essential to unlock and scale up financing for the energy
transition, innovation and disaster resiliency," she emphasized.

"We are also advocating for a new Greener Trade Framework to support emissions reduction throughout supply
chains and the transition to a low-carbon economy."

ABAC delegates had the opportunity to engage in different events with local business community and senior
government officials, including Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida, Minister for Foreign Affairs Yoko Kamikawa,
Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Saito Ken, Minister for Digital Transformation Taro Kono, and Mayor of
Tokyo Yuriko Koike. Torreblanca expressed gratitude to the government for their continued support of the APEC
process, and ABAC Japan for their excellent hosting of the meeting.

***

Original text here: https://www.apec.org/press/news-releases/2024/apec-businesses-call-for-greater-action-amid-
insufficient-economic-growth-and-increasing-climate-risk

Contact: Luciano Parades, ABAC Executive Director 2024, +51 997 587 486, lparedes@comexperu.org.pe; Antonio
Basilio, ABAC Secretariat, + 63 917 849 3351, abacsec@pfgc.ph

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8761560 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: August 6, 2024


  
