

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                                        HII Hosts USMC Officers at Ingalls Shipbuilding




                          HII Hosts USMC Officers at Ingalls Shipbuilding
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                             March 19, 2024 Tuesday 12:15 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 629 words

Body

PASCAGOULA, Miss., March 19, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- HII’s (NYSE: HII) Ingalls Shipbuilding division
hosted U.S. Marine Corps Lt. Gen. Karsten Heckl and officers on March 18 for a meeting with Ingalls leadership
and a shipyard tour. Heckl is the deputy commandant of the Marine Corps for combat development and integration.

“Walking our ships with sailors and Marines always makes for a good day,” Ingalls Shipbuilding President Kari
Wilkinson said. “Our shipbuilders are committed to delivering amphibious ships to the fleet.”

Ingalls builds the San Antonio (LPD) and America (LHA) classes of amphibious warships. During the visit, Heckl
had the opportunity to see first-hand the work taking place aboard amphibious assault ship Bougainville (LHA 8),
and amphibious transport dock Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29).

“It was great to see the hard work and passion that the Ingalls team is putting into the amphibious construction
lines,” Heckl said. “I’m pleased that we are moving forward with the existing Flight II design of the San Antonio-class
amphibious transport dock ships. As soon as they are delivered, our Marines will be ready to use them.”

A photo accompanying this release is available at: https://hii.com/news/hii-hosts-usmc-officers-at-ingalls-
shipbuilding/.

Recently, the U.S. Navy announced their request to buy an LPD 17 Flight II ship in fiscal year 2025 and has plans
to buy another LPD in fiscal year 2027 and again in fiscal year 2029.

“We are dedicated to the mission and are ready to support the strong demand signal we see for the ships we build,”
Wilkinson said. “We appreciate the importance of these ships and are proud to build them.”

Currently, Ingalls has three LPDs under construction including the final transition ship Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD
29), the first Flight II LPD Harrisburg (LPD 30), and Pittsburgh (LPD 31). Ingalls also has under contract the third

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
                                     HII Hosts USMC Officers at Ingalls Shipbuilding

LPD Flight II, Philadelphia (LPD 32). Additionally, Ingalls has two large-deck amphibious ships under construction,
Bougainville (LHA 8) and Fallujah (LHA 9).

Designed and built for survivability and flexibility, U.S. Navy amphibious ships are unique combat warships that
make possible complex joint U.S. military operations to respond swiftly to crises anywhere in the world, from
deterrence and major combat operations to humanitarian assistance and disaster relief.

About HII

HII is a global, all-domain defense provider. HII’s mission is to deliver the world’s most powerful ships and all-
domain solutions in service of the nation, creating the advantage for our customers to protect peace and freedom
around the world.

As the nation’s largest military shipbuilder, and with a more than 135-year history of advancing U.S. national
security, HII delivers critical capabilities extending from ships to unmanned systems, cyber, ISR, AI/ML and
synthetic training. Headquartered in Virginia, HII’s workforce is 44,000 strong. For more information, visit:
    •     HII on the web: https://www.HII.com/

    •     HII on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/TeamHII

    •     HII on X: https://www.twitter.com/WeAreHII

    •     HII on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/WeAreHII
                                                                                        Contact:
        Kimberly K. Aguillard
        228-355-5663

        Kimberly.K.Aguillard@hii-co.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is      available                        at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/ecd1ca52-01c1-4b59-8e5b-6981d69ea6f3

U.S. Marine Corps Lt. Gen. Karsten Heckl visits Ingalls

HII’s Ingalls Shipbuilding division hosted U.S. Marine Corps Lt. Gen. Karsten Heckl and officers on Monday, March
18, 2024, for a meeting with Ingalls leadership and a shipyard tour. During the visit, Heckl had the opportunity to
see first-hand the work taking place aboard amphibious assault ship Bougainville (LHA 8), and amphibious
transport dock Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29).


Load-Date: March 19, 2024


  
