

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 4
        A.I. Supercomputer Market Projected To Reach $3.3 Billion By 2028 with Significant Growth Expected




    A.I. Supercomputer Market Projected To Reach $3.3 Billion By 2028 with
                        Significant Growth Expected
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                               March 4, 2024 Monday 5:45 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: MARKET RESEARCH REPORTS
Length: 2215 words

Body


PALM BEACH, Fla., March 04, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- FN Media Group News Commentary - The
application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) supercomputers in numerous industries has witnessed significant growth
in recent years. These powerful computing systems are being leveraged to address complex challenges, as they
analyze massive datasets. Processors with faster and higher compute power provides the ability to AI
supercomputers to handle larger and complex models and aids in reducing the time it takes to train and run AI
models. AI supercomputers with high computational power processors are used for a wider range of applications.
This includes applications that require large and complex AI models, such as drug discovery, climate change
research, and financial modelling.

A report from MarketsAndMarkets said that the AI supercomputer market is projected to grow from USD $1.2 billion
in 2023 and is expected to reach USD $3.3 billion by 2028, growing at a CAGR of 22.0% from 2023 to 2028. The
report said: “The Government segment in the AI supercomputer market for application is expected to hold the
largest market size during the forecast period in the AI supercomputer market. AI supercomputers can be used to
detect fraud in a variety of areas, such as tax evasion, insurance fraud, and welfare fraud.” Active tech companies
in the markets this week include: Avant Technologies, Inc. (OTCQB: AVAI), NVIDIA Corporation (NASDAQ: NVDA),
Symbotic Inc. (NASDAQ: SYM), SoundHound AI, Inc. (NASDAQ: SOUN), C3 AI (NYSE: AI).

MarketsAndMarkets continued: “For example, the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is using AI supercomputers to
detect tax evasion. Moreover, AI supercomputers are also being used to coordinate disaster relief efforts and
provide assistance to victims of disasters. For example, the US Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
is using AI supercomputers to coordinate disaster relief efforts during hurricanes and other natural disasters. In this
sector, AI supercomputers are being used for various applications, including disaster management, oil exploration,
space, and energy research, and enhancing healthcare facilities. Commercial enterprises are increasingly utilizing

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 4
       A.I. Supercomputer Market Projected To Reach $3.3 Billion By 2028 with Significant Growth Expected

AI supercomputers for various applications, leveraging their immense computational power and advanced
algorithms to gain competitive advantages and drive innovation. AI supercomputers process vast datasets in real
time, providing valuable insights into customer behavior, market trends, and operational efficiency. This data driven
approach enhances decision-making processes for businesses.”

Avant Technologies, Inc. (OTCQB: AVAI) Announces Early Demand Accelerating for Avant Technologies’ Planned
High-Density Compute Solutions - Avant Technologies, Inc. (OTCQB: AVAI) (“Avant” or the “Company”), an
artificial intelligence technology (AI) company specializing in creating and developing innovative and advanced AI
infrastructure solutions, announced today that Avant is experiencing growing demand for its planned high-density
compute infrastructure and distributed supercomputing solutions.

In September 2023, Avant announced plans to begin working on the design and production of a faster, more
powerful, and more cost-effective compute infrastructure aimed at supporting AI, machine learning and other big
data use cases. Last month Avant announced its partnership with the Florida-based technology development firm
Wired4Tech to help support “last mile” development and testing of Avant’s new high-density private cloud
infrastructure solution. On the heels of that recent announcement, the company shared today that it is seeing strong
prelaunch momentum for its new high-density compute solution, which is expected to be available later this year.

Avant’s VP of Business Development, Jared Pelski, stated, “The team has been working hard on bringing new
technology to market that will address critical issues and growing opportunities in the current data center
infrastructure landscape. We’re starting to see that effort and innovation play out on the demand side as we
continue to ramp up our pre-launch selling activities. Our qualified pipeline has almost doubled since December and
new lead volume for February was up over 500%, month-over-month.”

The global cloud computing market size was valued at $545.8 billion in 2022, and it is projected to reach $1.24
trillion by 2027. Within that broader landscape, private cloud and AI are two of the fastest growing subsegments
with rapidly increasing demand for better, more cost-effective, and scalable solutions. These early indicators of
demand for Avant’s new high-density compute infrastructure are consistent with commercial growth numbers that
have been reported from traditional data centers. A Q3 2023 report by TD Cowen, entitled, “A Tsunami of AI
Demand Hits the Data Center Market,” highlighted annualized growth rates in the third-party data center market of
more than 80%, and went on to cite a specific example of a large data center whose sales pipeline doubled in size
over a 90-day period. Continued… Read these full press releases and more news for Avant Technologies
at: https://www.financialnewsmedia.com/news-avai/

Other recent developments in the markets of note include:

NVIDIA Corporation (NASDAQ: NVDA) and ServiceNow (NOW), and Hugging Face, and recently announced the
release of StarCoder2, a family of open-access large language models (LLMs) for code generation that sets new
standards for performance, transparency, and cost-effectiveness.

StarCoder2 was developed by the BigCode community, stewarded by ServiceNow, the leading digital workflow
company making the world work better for everyone, and Hugging Face, the most-used open-source platform
where the machine learning community collaborates on models, datasets and applications.

"StarCoder2 stands as a testament to the combined power of open scientific collaboration and responsible AI
practices with an ethical data supply chain," emphasized Harm de Vries, lead of ServiceNow's StarCoder2
development team, and co-lead of BigCode. "The state-of-the-art open-access model improves on prior generative
AI performance to increase developer productivity and provides developers equal access to the benefits of code
generation AI, which in turn enables organizations of any size to more easily meet their full business potential."

Symbotic Inc. (NASDAQ: SYM), a leader in A.I.-enabled robotics technology for the supply chain, recently
announced financial results for its first fiscal quarter of 2024 ending December 30, 2023. Symbotic posted revenue
of $369 million, a net loss of $13 million and adjusted EBITDA of $14 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2024. In the
same quarter of fiscal 2023, Symbotic had revenue of $206 million, a net loss of $68 million and an adjusted

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 4
       A.I. Supercomputer Market Projected To Reach $3.3 Billion By 2028 with Significant Growth Expected

EBITDA loss of $16 million. Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities on hand increased
by $129 million from the prior quarter to $677 million at the end of the first quarter.

“Fiscal year 2024 is off to a solid start with strong financial and operational results. I am pleased with the trajectory
and goals we have planned for the rest of the year,” said Rick Cohen, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Symbotic. “We will continue to innovate and build deployment capacity to support growth and increased profitability
for our stakeholders.”

SoundHound AI, Inc. (NASDAQ: SOUN), a global leader in voice artificial intelligence, recently reported its
financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2023.

"This was a breakthrough year in which SoundHound rapidly integrated powerful new generative AI capabilities.
Our real-world voice AI applications are already live and driving consumer engagement across vehicles, devices,
and customer service businesses," said Keyvan Mohajer, CEO and Co-Founder of SoundHound AI. "We also
acquired SYNQ3, establishing SoundHound as the largest voice AI provider for restaurants. Our pace and agility
amid this AI revolution has put us ahead of the field when it comes to delivering real commercial value."

"We finished the year strong by accelerating revenue and meaningfully increasing our penetration in the
marketplace," said Nitesh Sharan, CFO of SoundHound AI. "We have fortified our balance sheet and taken prudent
measures to strengthen our bottom line to ensure we can continue to capitalize on the tremendous customer
demand for our AI solutions."

C3 AI (NYSE: AI), the Enterprise AI application software company, recently announced that Genentech, the
medical biotechnology company, has selected C3 AI Reliability as the continued provider for AI-based predictive
maintenance software on the company’s biologics manufacturing equipment.

The biotechnology company began using the AI application in 2021 to ensure centrifuges in the facility remained
operational, with patients ultimately benefiting by receiving their medicines on time. Genentech uses this facility to
manufacture biologics, a specific class of medicine that is extremely complex, time consuming, and resource
intensive to develop and deliver to patients. These medicines help patients with some of the most difficult to treat
diseases, from multiple sclerosis and macular degeneration to blood cancers such as lymphoma and leukemia.

"We’re proud to partner with Genentech, a company well-known for delivering breakthrough medical innovations for
patients, and support its efforts with a robust AI program that allows what is an involved manufacturing process to
operate efficiently and ensure patients get the care they need on time," said C3 AI CEO Thomas M. Siebel.

About FN Media Group:

At FN Media Group, via our top-rated online news portal at www.financialnewsmedia.com, we are one of the very
few select firms providing top tier one syndicated news distribution, targeted ticker tag press releases and stock
market news coverage for today’s emerging companies.

Follow us on Facebook to receive the latest news updates: https://www.facebook.com/financialnewsmedia

Follow us on Twitter for real time Market News: https://twitter.com/FNMgroup

Follow us on Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/financialnewsmedia/

DISCLAIMER: FN Media Group LLC (FNM), which owns and operates FinancialNewsMedia.com and
MarketNewsUpdates.com, is a third party publisher and news dissemination service provider, which disseminates
electronic information through multiple online media channels. FNM is NOT affiliated in any manner with any
company mentioned herein. FNM and its affiliated companies are a news dissemination solutions provider and are
NOT a registered broker/dealer/analyst/adviser, holds no investment licenses and may NOT sell, offer to sell or
offer to buy any security. FNM's market updates, news alerts and corporate profiles are NOT a solicitation or
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. The material in this release is intended to be strictly informational

                                                                                                   Page 4 of 4
       A.I. Supercomputer Market Projected To Reach $3.3 Billion By 2028 with Significant Growth Expected

and is NEVER to be construed or interpreted as research material. All readers are strongly urged to perform
research and due diligence on their own and consult a licensed financial professional before considering any level
of investing in stocks. All material included herein is republished content and details which were previously
disseminated by the companies mentioned in this release. FNM is not liable for any investment decisions by its
readers or subscribers. Investors are cautioned that they may lose all or a portion of their investment when
investing in stocks. For current services performed FNM was compensated forty nine hundred dollars for news
coverage of the current press releases issued by Avant Technologies, Inc. by a non-affiliated third party. FNM
HOLDS NO SHARES OF ANY COMPANY NAMED IN THIS RELEASE.

This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, and Section 21E the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and such forward-looking
statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
"Forward-looking statements" describe future expectations, plans, results, or strategies and are generally preceded
by words such as "may", "future", "plan" or "planned", "will" or "should", "expected," "anticipates", "draft",
"eventually" or "projected". You are cautioned that such statements are subject to a multitude of risks and
uncertainties that could cause future circumstances, events, or results to differ materially from those projected in the
forward-looking statements, including the risks that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the
forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, and other risks identified in a company's annual report on
Form 10-K or 10-KSB and other filings made by such company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You
should consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements included herein, and not place undue
reliance on such statements. The forward-looking statements in this release are made as of the date hereof and
FNM undertakes no obligation to update such statements.

Contact Information:

Media Contact email: editor@financialnewsmedia.com - +1(561)325-8757

SOURCE: FN Media Group




Load-Date: March 4, 2024


  
