

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 13
                      COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024




   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024
                                               States News Service
                                             March 23, 2024 Saturday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 7355 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the office of House Majority Leader Steve Scalise:

Here's a recap of key moments from House Republican committees during the week:

Agriculture

On Wednesday, March 20, the Committee on Agriculture held afull committee hearingcalled "The Danger China
Poses to American Agriculture."Between 2010 and 2020, the Chinese Communist Party's holdings of US
agricultural land increased by 5,300%. Because growing foreign ownership of U.S. farmland, particularly by China,
poses a direct threat to our food security and national security, this hearing provided an opportunity to dive deeper
into the issue. Of particular note, the GAO report on foreign ownership of U.S. farmland requested by Chairmen
Thompson and Comer found significant shortcomings in USDA's ability to track and report the purchases.

This hearing featured testimony from South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem, Select Committee on the CCP Chairman
Mike Gallagher, and Ranking Member Raja Krishnamoorthi as well as several experts in the field of Chinese
aggression and food security. The hearing covered China's purchase of American farmland, intellectual property
theft, and hacking of critical cyber infrastructure.

Appropriations

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee onLabor, Health and Human Services, Education held ahearingcalled
"Fiscal Year 2025 Budget Request for the Department of Health and Human Services."Health and Human Services
Secretary Xavier Becerra testified before the Subcommittee on the Department's Budget Request for the upcoming
fiscal year, where Subcommittee Members highlighted the Department's role in the border crisis.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee onEnergy and Water Development, and Related Agenciesheld
ahearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025 Budget Request for the Department of Energy."Energy Secretary Jennifer
Granholm testified before the Subcommittee on the Department's Budget Request for the upcoming fiscal year.

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 13
                   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee onMilitary Construction, Veterans Affairs, and RelatedAgenciesheld
anoversight hearingcalled "Quality of Life in the Military."The Subcommittee invited senior military leaders to
discuss ways to improve the quality of life of our servicemembers and their families.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee onAgriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administrationheld
ahearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025 Budget Request for the Department of Agriculture."Agriculture Secretary Tom
Vilsack testified before the Subcommittee on the Department's Budget Request for the upcoming fiscal year.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee onFinancial Services and General Governmentheld abudget and
oversight hearingcalled "President Biden's Fiscal Year 2025 Budget Request and Economic Outlook."Treasury
Secretary Janet Yellen, Office of Management and Budget Director Shalanda Young, and Council of Economic
Advisers Chair Jared Bernstein testified before the Subcommittee on the President's Fiscal Year 2025 Budget
Request.

Armed Services

On Wednesday, March 20, the Armed Services Committee held afull committee hearingon U.S. military posture and
national security challenges in the Indo-Pacific Region. China is the greatest threat our nation faces deterring this
threat must be our top priority. We must invest in modernizing our military and enhance our partnerships in the
Indo-Pacific.

On Wednesday, March 20,the Subcommittee on Intelligence and Special Operations held ahearingon the goals,
challenges, and priorities of U.S. Special Operations Command and U.S. special operations forces. In his opening
statement, Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI)said,"Spending each dollar more effectively than each Chinese Yuan is how
we win Great Power Competition, and that is what our Special Operations Community can provide."

On Thursday, March 21, the Armed Services Committee held afull committee hearingon U.S. military posture and
national security challenges in the Greater Middle East and Africa. The policies of the Biden administration have
failed to deter Iran and their terrorist proxies putting U.S. national security at risk. Members pressed witnesses on
the threats posed by Iran, ISIS, and ISIS-K as well as China and Russia's malign influence in Africa.

On Thursday, March 21,the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces held ahearingon the United States' strategic forces
posture for fiscal year 2025 and assessing the related programs, capabilities, and priorities. In his opening
statement, Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO)said,"We are continuing to pursue a long overdue modernization of our
nuclear enterprise while Russia and China grow their nuclear forces at a staggering pace."

On Friday, March 22, the Subcommittee on Cyber, Information Technologies, and Innovation held ahearingon
priorities of the Department of Defense for digital modernization and transformation, artificial intelligence,
information technology, and cybersecurity. In his opening statement, Rep. Gallagher (R-WI)said,"We've established
that national security in this century is contingent on rapidly embracing technology and pivoting from platform-
centric combat to network-centric warfare. And yet, there doesn't appear to be any adversary as formidable as the
change-resistant culture of the Department of Defense."

Budget

On Thursday, March 21, the Budget Committee held afull committee hearingcalled "The President's Fiscal Year
2025 Budget Request."

Education and the Workforce

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensionsheld ahearingcalled
"Examining the Policies and Priorities of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation."This hearing was designed to
shine a light on PBGC's waste of taxpayer funds. Under Biden's watch at PBGC, $127 in taxpayer money was sent
to fund pensions for dead participants, Even worse, PBGC refused to claw back those funds when it was called out.
Also, by ignoring Congress's calculation instructions, PBGC saddled taxpayers with the bill for an additional $4.6

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 13
                   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

billion in pension bailouts.The Committee is committed to cutting all waste, fraud, and abuse in its jurisdiction,
including at PBGC.

On Thursday, March 21, the Committee on Education and the Workforce held afull committee markupon the
following legislation:

H.J. Res. 116, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Department of the Labor relating to "Employee or Independent Contractor Classification Under the
Fair Labor Standards Act" (Kiley)

H.R. 6418, the Empower Charter School Educators to Lead Act (Letlow)

H.R. 3724, the Accreditation for College Excellence Act of 2023 (Owens)

H.R. 7683, the Respecting the First Amendment on Campus Act (Williams)

The Biden administration, bureaucrats, and radical education administrators are holding students and workers
hostage with their we-know-better-than-you policies. It's no surprise that Americans' confidence in education is
plummeting across the board and workers are struggling to meet the demands of a changing economy. These four
bills focus on removing barriers in the lives of students and workers that restrict choice, limit Constitutional rights,
and impose values antithetical to American exceptionalism.

Energy and Commerce

On Wednesday, March 20, the Committee on Energy and Commerce held afull committee markupof 28 bills.

Communications and Technology Subcommittee:

H.R. 2864, theCountering CCP Drones Act, led by Rep. Stefanik, was reported to the Full House, as amended, by a
roll call vote of 43 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 820, theForeign Adversary Communications Transparency Act, led by Rep. Stefanik, was reported to the Full
House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 44 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 1513, theFuture Uses of Technology Upholding Reliable and Enhancing (FUTURE) Networks Act, led by Rep.
Matsui, was reported to the Full House, without amendment, by a roll call vote of 44 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 7589, theRemoving Our Unsecure Technologies to Ensure Reliability and Security (ROUTERS) Act, led by
Rep. Latta, was reported to the Full House, without amendment, by a roll call vote of 43 Yeas to 0 Nays.

Health Subcommittee:

H.R. 619, theNAPA Reauthorization Act, led by Rep. Tonko, was reported to the Full House, as amended, by a roll
call vote of 43 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 620, theAlzheimer's Accountability and Investment Act, led by Rep. C. Smith, was reported to the Full House,
without amendment, by a roll call vote of 43 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 7218, theBuilding Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) Infrastructure for Alzheimer's Act of 2024, led by Rep.
Guthrie, was reported to the Full House, without amendment, by a roll call vote of 44 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 4581, theMaternal and Child Health Stillbirth Prevention Act of 2024, led by Rep. Hinson, was reported to the
Full House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 44 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 2706, theCharlotte Woodward Organ Transplant Discrimination Prevention Act, led by Rep. Cammack, was
reported to the Full House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 46 Yeas to 0 Nays.

                                                                                                    Page 4 of 13
                   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

H.R. 4646, theSIREN Reauthorization Act, led by Rep. D. Joyce, was reported to the Full House, as amended, by a
roll call vote of 46 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 6160, To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a lifespan respite care program, led by Rep.
Molinaro, was reported to the Full House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 46 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 6960, theEmergency Medical Services for Children Reauthorization Act of 2024, led by Rep. Carter, was
reported to the Full House, without amendment, by a roll call vote of 48 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 7153, theDr. Lorna Breen Health Care Provider Protection Reauthorization Act, led by Rep. Wild, was reported
to the Full House, without amendment, by a roll call vote of 48 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 7251, thePoison Control Centers Reauthorization Act of 2024, led by Rep. Chavez-DeRemer, was reported to
the Full House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 47 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 7224, To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond to Health
and Wellness Training Program, led by Rep. Cohen, was reported to the Full House, without amendment, by a roll
call vote of 45 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 7208, theDennis John Beningo Traumatic Brain Injury Program Reauthorization Act of 2024, led by Rep.
Pascrell, was reported to the Full House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 44 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 6829, theCardiomyopathy Health Education, Awareness, and Research, and AED Training in the Schools
(HEARTS) Act of 2024, led by Rep. Pallone, was reported to the Full House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 42
Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 7189, theCongenital Heart Futures Reauthorization Act of 2024, led by Rep. Bilirakis, was reported to the Full
House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 43 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 7406, theDeOndra Dixon INCLUDE Project Act of 2024, led by Rep. McMorris Rodgers, was reported to the
Full House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 45 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 3916, theSCREENS for Cancer Act of 2024, led by Rep. Morelle, was reported to the Full House, as
amended, by a roll call vote of 46 Yeas to 0 Nays.

H.R. 5074, theKidney PATIENT Act, led by Rep. Carter, was reported to the Full House, as amended, by a roll call
vote of 36 Yeas to 10 Nays.

Energy, Climate, and Grid Security Subcommittee:

H.R. 7655, thePipeline Safety, Modernization, and Expansion Act of 2024, led by Rep. Duncan, was reported to the
Full House, as amended, by a roll call vote of 27 Yeas to 18 Nays.

H.R. 7673, theLiberty in Laundry Act, led by Rep. Ogles, was reported to the Full House, without amendment, by a
roll call vote of 22 Yeas to 19 Nays.

H.R. 7645, theClothes Dryers Reliability Act, led by Rep. Ezell, was reported to the Full House, without amendment,
by a roll call vote of 25 Yeas to 20 Nays.

H.R. 7637, theRefrigerator Freedom Act, led by Rep. Miller-Meeks, was reported to the Full House, without
amendment, by a roll call vote of 25 Yeas to 21 Nays.

H.R. 7626, theAffordable Air Conditioning Act, led by Rep. Crenshaw, was reported to the Full House, without
amendment, by a roll call vote of 24 Yeas to 21 Nays.

H.R. 7700, theStop Unaffordable Dishwasher Standards (SUDS) Act, led by Rep. Langworthy, was reported to the
Full House, without amendment, by a roll call vote of 25 Yeas to 21 Nays.

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 13
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

Environment, Manufacturing, and Critical Materials Subcommittees:

H.R. 7650, theAir Quality Standards Implementation Act of 2024, led by Rep. Carter, was reported to the Full
House, without amendment, by a roll call vote of 26 Yeas to 21 Nays.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Health held ahearingcalled "Evaluating Approaches to Diagnostic
Test Regulation and the Impact of the FDA's Proposed Rule."The Biden administration has continually undermined
biomedical innovation. The FDA's proposed regulation on laboratory developed tests will stifle development of
innovative and necessary tests for patient care, increase costs, and overburden an FDA struggling to keep up with
innovation in what it already regulates.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held ahearingcalled "Timeout:
Evaluating Safety Measures Implemented to Protect Athletes."Congress created SafeSport to protect young
athletes so predators like Larry Nassar will never harm children again. However, there have been hurdles to
implementing the safety measures provided by the SafeSport program, including a lack of transparency for athletes
who have submitted claims. Members used the hearing to examine how best to protect athletes from abuse and
what challenges the SafeSport program faces to accomplish that goal.

Financial Services

Last week, the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Patrick McHenry (NC-10), the Vice Chairman
of the Committee, French Hill (AR-02), and the Chairman of the National Security, Illicit Finance, and International
Financial Institutions Subcommittee, Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-03), sent aletterto Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen
demanding that she push for new leadership at the International Monetary Fund (IMF). As current Managing
Director Kristalina Georgieva's term ends, the lawmakerscitedmultiple ethical lapses including data manipulation,
inattention to allegations of sexual harassment, and ineffectiveness at holding China accountable for its lack of debt
transparency as evidence of her mismanagement. The Members strongly urge Secretary Yellen to reject the status
quo by identifying a new managing director.

On Monday, March 18, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, led by Chairman Bill Huizenga (MI-04),
held afield hearingentitled "Victims of Regulatory Overreach: How the SEC's Climate Disclosure Rule Will Harm
Americans."Lawmakersheard from witnessesin Lebanon, TN about the threats posed by the SEC's disastrous
climate disclosure rule to small businesses and entrepreneurs across the country.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, led by Chairman Ann Wagner (MO-02), held
ahearingtitled "SEC Overreach: Examining the Need for Reform."Membersaddressedclear examples of regulatory
overreach at the Securities and Exchange Commission including Chair Gensler's frenetic, partisan rulemaking
agenda at the SEC that threatens the health of U.S. capital markets and highlights the need for targeted institutional
reform.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, led by Chairman Warren Davidson (OH-
08), held ahearingtitled "The Characteristics and Challenges of Today's Homebuyers."Lawmakersconveneda panel
of our nation's housing experts to delve into the challenges facing purchasers in markets across the country.

On Thursday, March 21, the Financial Services Committee, led by Chairman McHenry, held afull committee
hearingon the dangers of ceding authority over American financial regulation to opaque and unaccountable global
governance bodies. Republicansheld banking regulators accountablefor their dealings with global governance
groups, especially when their guidance weakens U.S. competitiveness.

Foreign Affairs

On Tuesday, March 19, the Committee on Foreign Affairs held afull committee hearingcalled "An Assessment of the
Biden Administration's Withdrawal from Afghanistan by America's Generals."Hearing witnesses included Generals
Mark A. Milley and Kenneth F. McKenzie Jr., who testified to the State Department's failure to adequately plan for

                                                                                                    Page 6 of 13
                   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

the evacuation of American civilians from Afghanistan - which created conditions on the ground to hasten the
Taliban's takeover and the disaster at Abbey Gate.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa, and Central Asia held
ahearingcalled "Pakistan After the Elections: Examining the Future of Democracy in Pakistan and the US-Pakistan
Relationship."Assistant Secretary for South and Central Asian Affairs, Donald Lu, testified in front of the
Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia on Wednesday. Members discussed the February
2024 elections in Pakistan and the future of democracy in Pakistan after the elections, CCP influence in Pakistan,
and the future of the US-Pakistan bilateral relationship.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Committee on Foreign Affairs held afull committee markupon the following
legislation:

H.R. 6727, the United States Foundation for International Conservation Act of 2023 (McCaul)

H.R. 7256, the U.S.-South Africa Bilateral Relations Review Act (James)

H.R. 7701, To require the imposition of sanctions with respect to any foreign person that knowingly participates in
the construction, maintenance, or repair of a tunnel or bridge that connects the Russian mainland with the Crimean
peninsula (Meeks)

H.Res. 901, Expressing support for democracy and human rights in Pakistan (McCormick)

H.R. 3334, the Sanctioning Tyrannicaland Oppressive People within the Chinese CommunistParty Act or the STOP
CCP Act (McClain)

H.Res. 1084, Condemning the killing of Alexei Navalny and calling for the release of all political prisoners in the
Russian Federation (Wild)

H.R. 5245, the Science and Technology Agreement Enhanced Congressional NotificationAct of 2023 (Barr)

H.R. 6831, the VERDAD Reauthorization Act (Salazar)

H.R. 7710, To authorize and encourage the United States Agency for International Development to pursue a model
of locally led development and humanitarian response and expand engagement with local partners and increase its
local partner base (Jacobs)

On Thursday, March 21, the Committee on Foreign Affairs held afull committee hearingcalled "Countering China on
the World Stage: Empowering American Businesses and Denying Chinese Military Our Technology."During the
hearing, committee members examined how America's adversaries are leveraging U.S. technologies and
circumventing America's export regime to gain the upper hand in cutting-edge industries like quantum, chip
manufacturing, and artificial intelligence.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on the Indo-Pacific held ahearingcalled "Commerce as Statecraft:
Better Leveraging U.S. Business to Advance our Economic and National Security Goals in the Indo-Pacific."In her
opening statement, Subcommittee on the Indo-Pacific Chairwoman Young Kim noted that, "Indo-Pacific is a top
U.S. market and vital to the strength of the U.S. economy." The hearing examined pathways for the U.S. to increase
exports and promote economic partnerships in the region.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Accountability held ahearingcalled "Assessing State
Department Compliance with Oversight."The Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources, Richard
R. Verma, and Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Naz Durakoglu, testified before the
committee to assess the State Department's compliance with Congressional oversight matters. The Committee
analyzed the effectiveness of the Bureau in answering Congressional inquiries and identifying critical needs for
change.

                                                                                                     Page 7 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

Homeland Security

On Wednesday, March 20, the Committee on Homeland Security held afull committee hearingentitled "Examining
the Current Status of Iran's Axis of Resistance and the Implications for Homeland Security and U.S. Interests."This
hearing examined the persistent, malicious, and growing activity by Iranian-backed terrorist groups, such as
Hamas, Hizballah, and the Houthis, and the near- and long-term implications for homeland security. In addition, the
Committee examined other threats, such as recent plots against U.S. officials and transnational repression by the
regime on U.S. soil. Due to the classified nature of much of the information discussed, the hearing was moved to a
closed session with witnesses from the DHS, FBI, DEA, and the Department of State following opening statements.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Emergency Management and Technology held ahearingentitled
"Securing Our Nation From WMDs: A Review of the Department of Homeland Security's Countering Weapons of
Mass Destruction Office."The mission of the Department of Homeland Security's Countering Weapons of Mass
Destruction Office is to safeguard America from chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats by providing
training, exercises, equipment, and operational support to stakeholders and partners nationwide. Witnesses
discussed the CWMD Office's strategies and partnerships, and how Congress can ensure the Office is doing its job
effectively.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Border Security and Enforcement and the Subcommittee
onOversight, Investigations, and Accountability held ajointhearingentitled "Examining CBP One: Functions,
Features, Expansion, and Risks."Members examined the Department of Homeland Security's unlawful use of the
CBP One app to mass-parole hundreds of thousands of inadmissible aliens into the United States. In January 2024,
DHS processed approximately 45,000 inadmissible aliens into the country using the CBP One app. Between
January 2023 and the end of January 2024, over 450,000 inadmissible aliens "successfully scheduled
appointments."

House Administration

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Modernization held ahearingentitled "Legislative Proposals to
Support Modernizing the Congressional Research Service and the Use of Federal Data."

On Thursday, March 21, the Committee on House Administration held afull committee hearingentitled "Safety on
Capitol Hill: DC Crime's Impact on Congressional Operations and Visitors."

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence

On Tuesday, March 19, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Mike Turner and Ranking
Member Jim Himesreceivedthe Publius Award for leadership and bipartisan in government from the Center for the
Study of the Presidency and Congress.

Judiciary

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee onthe Administrative State, Regulatory Reform, and Antitrust held
ahearingcalled "Reining in the Administrative State: Agency Adjudication and Other Agency Action,"to examine
problems that stem from how some federal agencies sue defendants in the agencies' own in-house courts. In
addition to the defects of such in-house adjudication, the hearing explores ways Congress should improve the
status quo.

On Thursday, March 21, the Judiciary Committee held amarkup sessionto consider the following legislation:

H.R. __, the One Agency Act (Cline)

H.R. 7198, the Prove It Act of 2024 (Finstad)

H.R. 5082, the Revising Existing Procedures On Reporting via Technology (REPORT) Act (Lee)

                                                                                                  Page 8 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

H.R. 7187, the Protection of Women in Olympic and Amateurs Sports Act (Steube)

H.R. 1631, the Protecting and Enhancing Public Access to Codes Act (Issa)

H.R. 661, Sarah's Law (Feenstra)

H.R. 3591, the Asylum Accountability Act (Rouzer)

This markup worked on legislation emphasizing that men should not be allowed to play in women's sports. The
markup also worked on legislation to strengthen accountability and transparency on behalf of small businesses.

Natural Resources

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Federal Lands held alegislative hearingon the following bills:

H.R. 5015, the Seedlings for Sustainable Habitat Restoration Act of 2023(Fernandez)

H.R. 5499, the Congressional Oversight of the Antiquities Act(Miller-Meeks)

H.R. 6085, To prohibit the implementation of the Draft Resource Management Plan and Environmental Impact
Statement for the Rock Springs RMP Revision, Wyoming(Hageman)

H.R. 6209, the Sloan Canyon Conservation and Lateral Pipeline Act(Titus)

H.R. 6547, the Colorado Energy Prosperity Act(Boebert)

H.R. 7006, To prohibit natural asset companies from entering into any agreement with respect to land in the State
of Utah or natural assets on or in such land(Curtis)

President Biden has used a variety of executive tools to try to lock up our public lands. While the Biden
administration has taken a radical, unbalanced and careless approach in managing federal lands, the subcommittee
during this hearing considered legislation to restore a balanced, thoughtful approach to managing public land to
benefit the public.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Indian and Insular Affairs held anoversight hearingtitled
"Advancing Tribal Self-Determination: Examining the opportunities and challenges of the 477 Program."In 1992, the
Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Demonstration Act enabled tribes to coordinate and integrate
multiple federal programs focused on employment and related support services into one tribal program, with one
budget and one annual report. During this hearing, committee members discussed these issues and questioned
witnesses about opportunities for the 477 program to grow and improve, and what changes are necessary to
increase the program's ability to support tribal self-determination.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources held anoversight hearingtitled
"Assessing Domestic Offshore Energy Reserves and Ensuring U.S. Energy Dominance."

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Water, Wildlife and Fisheries held alegislative hearingon the
following bills:

H.R. 1395, the Delaware River Basin Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2023(Fitzpatrick)

H.R. 5487, the Help Our Kelp Act(Huffman)

H.R. 6814, the Marine Fisheries Habitat Protection Act(Graves)

H.R. 7020, the Great Lakes Mapping Act(McClain)

                                                                                                     Page 9 of 13
                   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

This hearing focused on legislation aiming at accomplishing key goals for Committee Republicans. These bills
empower partnerships across levels of government and the private sector, encourage up-to-date mapping across
the Great Lakes Region, and recognize the role offshore energy production plays in enhancing marine life.

Oversight and Accountability

On Wednesday, March 20, the Committee on Oversight and Accountability held afull committee hearingcalled
"Influence Peddling: Examining Joe Biden's Abuse of Public Office."At the hearing, Biden family business
associates Tony Bobulinski and Jason Galanis testified under oath Joe Biden knew about, participated in, and
enabled his family's corrupt influence peddling schemes. To date, the Oversight Committee hasuncoveredevidence
showing the Bidens and their associates created over 20 shell companies, raked in over $24 million dollars from
China and other foreign countries from 2014 to 2019, nine members of the Biden family participated or benefited
from the business schemes, and Joe Biden closed business deals by attending meetings, speaking on
speakerphone, and dining, and with his son's foreign business associates.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Information Technology, and Government Innovation
held ahearingtitled "White House Overreach on AI."Subcommittee members discussed how the Biden
Administration's executive order (EO) on AI will hamstring U.S. innovation and leadership. Subcommittee members
highlighted provisions in the EO that lack statutory authority, undermine the role of Congress, and establish heavy-
handed industry controls.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on National Security, the Border, and Foreign Affairs held ahearingtitled
"Accountable Assistance: Reviewing Controls to Prevent Mismanagement of Foreign Aid."The subcommittee
hearing examined how the federal government, specifically USAID and the State Department, attempts to prevent
foreign assistance from getting into the hands of terrorists or other nefarious actors.

On Thursday, March 21, the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic held ahearingtitled "Assessing
America's Vaccine Safety Systems, Part 2."Members examined the federal government's vaccine safety reporting
and injury compensation systems and discussed ways that these systems could be improved. During the COVID-19
pandemic, concerns arose regarding the ability of physicians to identify and report vaccine injuries to a safety
surveillance system that was not structured to handle a massive influx of claims and that the federal government
was not adequately following up on allegations of serious vaccine injuries.

Rules

During House Republican Energy Week, the Rules Committeemet and considered several measures(H.R.
1023,H.R. 1121,H.R. 6009,H.R. 7023,H. Con. Res. 86, andH. Res. 987) to support American energy and counter
President Biden's anti-domestic production agenda. Members highlighted how our nation produces energy better,
safer, and cleaner than anywhere else in the world. Yet, President Biden and his administration have actively
chosen to undercut U.S. energy and implemented policies and regulations that have left families to face higher
costs, a weaker leadership posture, and increased reliance on foreign nations with much lower environmental
standards. House Republicans are committed to an abundant, reliable, affordable, and all-of-the-above energy
approach.

Science, Space, and Technology

On Wednesday, March 20, the Science Committee held afull committee markupon the following legislation:

H.R. 272, the ASTRO Act (Babin)

H.R. 6219, the ASCEND Act (Kean/Bonamici)

H.R. 7687, the NASA Streamlining Partnerships (Sorenson)

H.R. 4152, the Space Resources Institute Act (Caraveo/Lamborn)

                                                                                                    Page 10 of 13
                   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

H.R. 7630, the ANCHOR Act (Garcia/Stevens)

H.R. 7686, To Clarify the Definition of Foreign Country for Purposes of Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment
(Garcia/Stevens)

H.R. 7073, the Next Generation Pipelines Research and Development Act (Weber/Caraveo)

H.R. 7685, the IMPACT Act (Miller/Foushee)

The legislation considered spanned various sectors, from space and energy to research and technology and
reflects the committee's continuous bipartisan efforts to strengthen the country's world-class scientific enterprise.

On Thursday, March 21, theSubcommittee on Space and Aeronautics held ahearingcalled "Advancing Scientific
Discovery: Assessing the Status of NASA's Science Mission Directorate."Witnesses discussed the current and
future activity across NASA's Science Mission Directorate, as well as explored the Agency's management of these
missions.The success of these programs is critical for our future science and space endeavors.

Select Committee on the CCP

On Wednesday, March 20, Chairman Mike Gallagher (R-WI) and Ranking Member Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL) of
the House Select Committee on the Strategic Competition Between the United States and the Chinese Communist
Party wrote to the Biden administration, calling for immediate action to counter the malign trade actions of drone
manufacturers in the People's Republic of China (PRC). Companies like DJI and Autel Robotics receive immense
subsidies from the Chinese government, enabling Chinese drone makers to overtake 77 percent of the U.S. hobby
drone market and over 90 percent of the U.S. commercial drone market.

On Wednesday, March 20, Chairman Mike Gallagher (R-WI) of the House Select Committee on the Chinese
Communist Party testified before the House Agriculture Committee at a hearing entitled 'The Danger China Poses
to American Agriculture.' Select Committee Ranking Member Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL) and South Dakota
Governor Kristi Noem testified alongside Chairman Gallagher.

Small Business

On Wednesday, March 20, the Committee on Small Business held afull committee hearingcalled "Conducting
Oversight: Testimony from the Small Business Administrator."During the hearing, members questioned the SBA
Administrator regarding the SBA's mismanagement and involvement in issues not related to small businesses such
as voter registration. Members also highlighted the SBA's failure to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars, failing to
collect on certain loans.

Transportation and Infrastructure

On Wednesday, March 20, the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee held afull committee markupwhere
Members approved theCoast Guard Authorization Act of 2024, bipartisan legislation to strengthen, support, and
authorize funding for the United States Coast Guard, one of the Nation's six armed services. The legislation
supports the Coast Guard and its critical missions to safeguard the Nation's borders, facilitate maritime commerce,
and ensure maritime safety. The bill includes new and updated provisions since last year's Committee passage of
Coast Guard legislation; updates include sexual assault and harassment protections for members of the Coast
Guard and ensure greater accountability and transparency in the Coast Guard following the Committee's
investigation of the Service's Operation Fouled Anchor.

Additionally, the Committee approved theFacilitating Access to Swiftly Transport Goods during a Publicly
Announced State of Emergency Situation Act (FAST PASS Act), introduced by Rep. Mike Ezell. TheFAST PASS
Acttakes steps to avoid future supply chain crises by directing the Department of Transportation to study and report
to Congress on expediting the movement of critical cargo through ports and marine terminals.

                                                                                                     Page 11 of 13
                   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit held ahearingto examine the policies and
programs impacting rural infrastructure. The hearing, entitled "Rural Transportation Challenges: Stakeholder
Perspectives," focused on the unique challenges facing rural communities and the implementation of Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) programs meant to aid them.

Veterans Affairs

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity held alegislative hearingon the following
legislation:

H.R. 6656, the Stuck on Hold Act (Calvert)

H.R. 7323, To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to disapprove courses
of education offered by a public institution of higher learning that does not charge the in-State tuition rate to a
veteran using certain educational assistance under title 10 of such Code (Van Orden)

H.R. ___, To amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for a limitation on the amount of entitlement to
educational assistance payable for flight training under the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the
Department of Veterans Affairs

H.R. ___, To amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for the restoration of entitlement of individuals entitled
to educational assistance under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs who use such
entitlement to pursue a course or program of education at an educational institution found to have violated certain
prohibitions on advertising, sales, and enrollment practices, and for other purposes

H.R. ___, To amend titles 10 and 38, United States Code, to make improvements to certain programs for a member
nearing separation, or for a veteran who recently separated, from the Armed Forces, and for other purposes

H.R. 6225, the Expanding Home Loans for Guard and Reservists Act (Ryan)

H.R. ___, To amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the use of Department of Veterans Affairs work-study
allowance to carry out casework, policy making, and oversight related to the activities of the Department at certain
congressional offices

H.R. ___, To amend title 38, United States Code, to update certain terminology regarding veteran employment

H.R. ___, the Fair Access to Co-ops for Veterans Act of 2024

One bill would create a call-back option for veterans calling the VA Benefits office when the wait time is over 15
minutes. Another bill would allow veterans to use Chapter 1606 Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve in-state
tuition through a waiver. Additional legislation would allow student veterans in flight training to use up to $100,000
for flight training fees which would prevent schools from continuing to overcharge veterans. Finally, the
Subcommittee considered legislation that would enhance the Transition Assistance Program, legislation to increase
accountability, legislation to enhance home loans for guard and reserve, and legislation to allow the purchase of co-
ops as an option for the veteran home loan. Republicans support these bills because they provide modernization,
education, and home loan improvements while better preparing our veterans and their families for their transition
back into civilian life.

On Wednesday, March 20, the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairsheld anoversight
hearingtitled "Lost in Translation: How VA's Disability Claims and Appeals Letters Should be Simplified."The
hearing examined whether VA's notice letters to veterans and their families are understandable and contain the
information veterans need to effectively navigate the VA claims and appeals process. Witness testimony revealed
that letters are difficult for veterans to understand, unnecessarily lengthy, and filled with undecipherable legal
jargon. Therefore, veterans are misdirected and confused by these letters; veterans experience anxiety and
depression when trying to decode the letters; and, some veterans and survivors give up on their claims. GOP
Members questioned VA about what efforts it has made to simplify and improve its notice letters. Though VA

                                                                                                       Page 12 of 13
                   COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

witnesses testified about some efforts to do so, including with feedback from veterans' advocates, VA witnesses
acknowledged that more work can be done. Veterans' advocates testified as to specific recommendations for
improving these letters and agreed with GOP members that further collaboration between VA and veterans'
advocates could help improve these notice letters. Chairman Luttrell called for a roundtable with VA and veterans'
advocates to review and improve VA's notice letters, and all witnesses assented to participating.

On Thursday, March 21, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs held alegislative hearingtitled "Legislative Hearing on:
Toxic Exposure Fund Improvement Act of 2024".The Committee heard testimony from the Department of Veterans
Affairs (VA) on Chairman Bost's legislation that would clarify that the VA Cost of War Toxic Exposures Fund is
intended for implementation of the Honoring Our PACT Act, limit the Fund's exemption from Congressional Budget
Office (CBO) scoring to specified amounts, and solve another CBO scoring problem causing most VA authorizing
legislation to carry inflated mandatory costs. This problem threatens to handcuff the Committee from advancing a
wide range of legislation that is crucial for VA to keep pace with veterans, their families, and their survivors' needs.
Chairman Bost emphasized his commitment to working with VA or any member of Congress to solve the problem
while preserving dedicated funding for the PACT Act. Chairman Bost also expressed his disappointment that VA
and minority members of the Committee oppose the legislation while refusing to put forward any alternate
proposals.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Health held alegislative hearingon the following legislation:

H.R. 3584, the Veterans Care Act (Miller-Meeks)

H.R. 3644, the Act for Veterans Act (Latta)

H.R. 3649, the Veterans National Traumatic Brain Injury Treatment Act (Murphy)

H.R. 4424, the Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act (LaLota)

H.R. 5530, the VA Emergency Transportation Access Act (Bost)

H.R. 6324, the FY24 VA Major Medical Facility Authorization Act (Bost)

H.R. 6373, the Veterans STAND Act (Bergman)

H.R. 7347, To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to report on whether
the Secretary will include certain psychedelic drugs in the formulary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (Van
Orden)

H.R. 3225, the BUILD for Veterans Act (Deluzio)

H.R. 5794, the VA Peer Review Neutrality Act (Dingell)

H.R. 3303, the Maternal Health for Veterans Act (Underwood)

H.R. 5247, the Expedited Hiring for VA Trained Psychiatrists Act of 2023 (Cartwright)

The legislative hearing on March 21, 2024, highlighted a series of important bills focused on enhancing the
healthcare and services for veterans. The Veterans CARE Act (HR 3584) introduced by Rep. Miller-Meeks
proposed research into the effects of cannabis for treating veterans with chronic pain and PTSD, representing a
forward-thinking approach to alternative therapies. The Act for Veterans Act (HR 3644) by Rep. Latta aimed to
extend the period veterans can receive emergency treatment in non-VA facilities, ensuring more accessible and
timely healthcare. The Veterans National Traumatic Brain Injury Treatment Act (HR 3649) from Rep. Murphy would
create a pilot program for hyperbaric oxygen therapy, exploring new ways to support veterans with TBI or PTSD.
The Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act (HR 4424) by Rep. LaLota focused on studying the impact of
bile duct cancer among Vietnam veterans, addressing specific health risks associated with service. The VA
Emergency Transportation Access Act (HR 5530) by Chairman Bost aimed to improve veterans' access to medical

                                                                                                    Page 13 of 13
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF MARCH 18, 2024

care by establishing guidelines for transportation service reimbursements. The FY24 VA Major Medical Facility
Authorization Act (HR 6324) by Chairman Bost proposed the authorization of essential medical facility projects,
underlining the commitment to upgrading healthcare infrastructure. The Veterans STAND Act (HR 6373) by Rep.
Bergman focused on providing annual health evaluations and better access to assistive devices for veterans with
spinal cord injuries, aiming to enhance their quality of life. Lastly, HR 7347 by Rep. Van Orden called for the VA to
consider including psychedelic drugs in its formulary for treating PTSD, indicating a progressive approach to mental
health care. Each bill reflects a commitment to improving the range and quality of services available to veterans,
demonstrating a comprehensive effort to meet their diverse healthcare needs.

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held alegislative hearingon the
following legislation:

H.R. 6452, the Veterans Scam and Fraud Evasion Act (Stefanik)

H.R. 6531, the TRAIN VA Employees Act (Pappas)

H.R. 6538, the VA Correct Compensation Act (Takano)

H.R. 6874, the VA WEB Act (Rosendale)

H.R. 6947, the Veterans Affairs Centennial and Heritage Act (Turner)

H.R. 7342, the Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act (Valadao)

H.R. ___, the VA Security Screening Pilot Program Act

H.R. ___, the Required Notation of Investigation in Personnel Record File Act

H.R. ___, the Reporting Performance Plans for VA Political Appointees Act

The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hosted a legislative hearing which included a variety of legislative
items related to operations and employee accountability within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The
hearing considered bills which would create an officer responsible for combatting fraudsters who target veterans,
force VA to monitor and report security issues with its website, preserve VA's history, focus VA's attention on
veterans with disabilities, and ensure employees don't escape discipline by resigning from VA.

Ways and Means

On Monday, March 18, the Committee on Ways and Means held afull committee field hearingin Denton, Texas titled
"Access to Health Care in America: Ensuring Resilient Emergency Medical Care."

On Wednesday, March 20, the Committee on Ways and Means held afull committee hearingcalled "Hearing with
Health and Human Services Secretary Becerra."

On Thursday, March 21, the Subcommittee on Social Security and the Subcommittee on Work and Welfare held
ajoint hearingcalled "Hearing with the Commissioner of Social Security, Martin O'Malley."


Load-Date: April 8, 2024


  
