

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
       Screenplay Writer/Producer Has 5 Films Released by Two Major Distributors ' From Scams to Love and
                                                  Everyday Life




Screenplay Writer/Producer Has 5 Films Released by Two Major Distributors
                 ' From Scams to Love and Everyday Life
                                                          News Release Wire
                                             January 25, 2024 Thursday 2:00 AM EST




Copyright 2024 Broadcast Interview Source, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Length: 1331 words

Body


        It can be hard for a new screenplay writer or producer to get any film made, but in 10 years, screenplay
writer/producer and book author Gini Graham Scott has scored a major coup 5 documentaries released in four
months by two major distributors The films are Conned: A True Story and Con Artists Unveiled from Gravitas
Ventures based on the books The Big Con and Scammed, and When Love Goes Bad, Surviving Change, and
Finding Happiness from Adler & Associates Entertainment.

        It's an unusual achievement that Scott has been working towards for 10 years. Now she is on the verge of a
big breakthrough in the film industry as she writes her next script which has already been picked up by a long-time
agent. It's called Aimy, about a man who falls in love with a lovebot that communicates with ChatGPT, resulting in
problems with his girlfriend and other crazy complications in his life.

         Along the way to this achievement, Scott has developed 18 films with 15 completed films in distribution that
reflect her specialties in films and documentaries about relationships, crime, and everyday life.

        The films can be viewed as a series in which individuals encounter difficulties in their life from scams, bad
relationships, and everyday problems to meeting the challenges and finding happiness in the end. It's a philosophy
Scott has followed in her daily life, based on turning any bad experiences into something good by learning life
lessons or discovering how to do something better in the future. For example, as an author, she has turned many
bad experiences into dozens of books from dealing with liars to rebounding from scams. Most recently she turned
the theft of her Facebook account and groups into articles and books about the black market for stolen social media
groups and how to protect one's social media accounts.

       Following are a brief description and links to the trailers and Amazon listings for her 5 latest films, the first
two dealing with scams, the other three with relationships and experiences in everyday life.

Conned: A True Story tells the true stories of multiple scams. Bank accounts were wiped out, lives were all
but destroyed, and the survivors have gathered together to tell their stories and reveal the dark secrets of
those con artists. A trailer is at             https://youtu.be/u6zg0G6IqZM . The Amazon link is at
https://www.amazon.com/Conned-True-Story-Robert-Newman/dp/B0CHB1ZYRW

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
      Screenplay Writer/Producer Has 5 Films Released by Two Major Distributors ' From Scams to Love and
                                                 Everyday Life

Con Artists Unveiled. Hosted by world renown magicians, Evan Disney & Dan Sperry, featuring interviews
with professional con artists, and their victims, with insights from law enforcement and psychologists,
giving us a window into the underworld of con artistry. A trailer is at https://youtu.be/rEP21wFmWmM .
The Amazon link is at https://www.amazon.com/Artists-Unveiled-Evan-Disney/dp/B0CGV4Z37Y

When Love Goes Bad        is a documentary which features two dozen individuals who once had good
relationships that turned bad. In the interviews, individuals tell their story and offer tips on how others can
deal with relationships that go bad and use them to deal with problem relationships in the future. The film
also features several psychologists, counselors, consultants, and coaches who help individuals deal with
relationships.     A trailer is at:        https://youtu.be/FTwytspxCAs .          The Amazon link is at
https://www.amazon.com/When-Love-Goes-Bad-Adame/dp/B0CP5M56RZ

Surviving Change features the way people survived challenging experiences in life and the changes they
made as a result. The focus is on the people's everyday experiences, from discovering they can't trust a
friend or family member and having to adjust to a different way of life after a move to overcoming a major
illness or disaster. The completed screener is available to film industry professionals on request. A trailer
is at: https://youtu.be/6Tx79hKqm3A . The Amazon link is at https://www.amazon.com/Surviving-Change-
Maria-Bova/dp/B0CLSFFB96

Finding Happiness features two dozen individuals talking about how they have found happiness in life in
various ways -- from their family and friends to having and achieving their goals and dreams in life. It
describes how some of found happiness after undergoing and mastering a series of challenges in life. It
also features some experts talking about the ways that individuals achieve true happiness, regardless of
the economic circumstances in life. A trailer is at: https://youtu.be/4OkvX8bG0Cs . The Amazon link is at
https://www.amazon.com/Finding-Happiness-Maria-Bova/dp/B0CK19JVLV

         Besides producing 18 features films and documentaries, Gini Graham Scott, Ph.D., has garnered 263
awards for her screenplays in film festivals around the world. She has published over 200 books, more than 50 with
traditional publishers, works as a ghostwriter with dozens of clients, and speaks about writing, publishing. For the
last year, she has been working with AI as a writer and illustrator, publishing over three dozen non-fiction and
children's books with AI's assistance and speaking to groups about using AI for writing and illustrating books.

For more information, press inquiries, or to schedule an interview with Gini Graham Scott, Ph.D., please contact:

Karen Andrews Executive Assistant to Gini Graham Scott Changemakers Publishing, Writing, and Production San
Ramon,      California    (925)       804-6333            www.changemakerspubishingandwriting.com
www.changemakersproductionsfilms.com changemakersprod@att.net

About:

GINI GRAHAM SCOTT, Ph.D., J.D., is a nationally known writer, consultant, speaker, and seminar leader,
specializing in business relationships and professional development, social trends, popular culture, criminal justice,
and writing and publishing books. She has published over 200 books on diverse subjects, and she helps clients with
ghostwriting, self-publishing, and promotion. Writing samples are at www.changemakerspublishingandwriting.com.
She is the founder of Changemakers Publishing featuring books on self-help, work, business, psychology, and
social trends. She has licensed several dozen books for foreign sales, including the UK, Russia, Korea, Spain, and
Japan      She has received national media exposure for her books, including appearances on Good Morning
America, Oprah, Montel Williams, and CNN. She has been the producer and host of a talk show series,
CHANGEMAKERS, featuring interviews on various types of change.

 Her books on business relationships and professional development include:

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
     Screenplay Writer/Producer Has 5 Films Released by Two Major Distributors ' From Scams to Love and
                                                Everyday Life

Increase Your Impact and Influence Self-Publishing Your Book in Multiple Formats How to Find and Work with a
Good Ghostwriter The Neanderthals Are Back What's Your Dog Type? Using the Dog Type System for Success
in Business and the Workplace Want It, See It, Get It!: Visualize Your Way to Success

A Survival Guide to Managing Employees from Hell A Survival Guide for Working with Bad Bosses A Survival
Guide for Working with Humans Disagreements, Disputes and All-Out War 30 Days to a More Powerful Memory
Her books on social trends and popular culture include: The Science of Living Longer The New Middle Ages The
Battle Against Internet Piracy Transformations: How New Developments in Science, Technology, Business, and
Society Are Changing Your Life The Very Next New Thing Playing the Lying Game American Murder Homicide
by the Rich and Famous Homicide: 100 Years of Murder in America You, the Jury The Talk Show Revolution The
Death of Privacy The Power of Fantasy Her books on film making and the film industry include: The Complete
Guide to Writing, Producing, and Directing a Low-Budget Short Film Finding Funds for Your Film or TV Project
Marketing Films to Millennials and Baby Boomers Her books on marketing and promotion include: The Complete
Guide to Using LinkedIn to Promote Your Business or Yourself The Complete Guide to Doing Your Own PR

http://www.Newsreleasewire.com/301991


Load-Date: January 26, 2024


  
