

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 6
      New to The Street Announces Episode 580, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                             Bloomberg TV, Saturday, July 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET




 New to The Street Announces Episode 580, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing
 as a Sponsored Program on Bloomberg TV, Saturday, July 13, 2024, at 6:30
                                 PM ET
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                                July 12, 2024 Friday 6:15 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CALENDAR OF EVENTS; PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 3549 words

Body


NEW YORK, July 12, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- FMW Media's New to The Street, a national business TV
show, announces episode 580, airing on Bloomberg TV as a sponsored programming on Saturday, July 13, 2024,
at 6:30 PM ET.

New to The Street's 580th episode line-up features the following six (6) Corporate interviews:

1). "The Business of Blockchain" sponsored by Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ($BTDR),
interview with Paul Brody, EY Global Blockchain Leader at Ernst & Young Global Limited (EY).

2). Space Medicines - Vector Space Biosciences, Inc.'s (SBIO) interview with Kasian Franks, CEO and Co-
Founder.

3). Golfing Online Platform – Performance Golf's interview with Brixton Albert, Founder and CEO.

4). Sustainable Solutions – Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) interview with Tony Raynor,
CEO and Founder.

5). Cultural Meme Coin – Meneki Coin (CRYPTO: MANEKI) ($MANEKI) interview with Ester Han, Press Speaker.

6). “Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO, Sekur
Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®).

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 580, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                            Bloomberg TV, Saturday, July 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

Episode 580

From the New York Stock Exchange Studio, Paul Brody, Principal and Global Blockchain Leader at Ernst & Young
(EY), appears in a special Business of Blockchain series with New to The Street TV Host Jane King to discuss
the work that EY is doing to help the media fight fake news. As Brody explains, Agenzia Nazionale Stampa
Associata (ANSA), a leading news agency in Italy, approached EY for a solution after noticing that some of their
articles were being altered and made to appear authentic. Today, ANSA articles are run through an EY system that
hashes them on the blockchain. According to Brody, "Hashing is very clever because if you put information into this
little mathematical algorithm, it pops out a number. And if you change even one letter in any of that information, it
turns out to be a completely different number. And if you put the original output on a public blockchain that cannot
be tampered with, then you have this permanent record of what the original article said. You can go back and
compare it at any time, and you can be certain that what you're reading is the original source information." ANSA
readers can click an "ANSAcheck" label that appears with an article to verify the content's authenticity. "The
feedback on this has been very positive," says Brody. We get hundreds of thousands of verification checks going
through the system. So, we know people are checking these articles from time to time." Paul and EY are looking to
expand smarter and simpler tools, utilizing the blockchain that can enhance their clients' abilities to streamline and
accelerate their businesses. Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ($BTDR) ("Bitdeer") sponsors New
to The Street's "The Business of Blockchain" segment. The on-screen QR code is available during the show;
download or visit Ernst & Young Global Limited (EY) - https://www.ey.com/en_us.

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King from the New York Stock Exchange Studio talks with Kasian Franks, CEO
and Co-Founder of Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) ("Vector") ("Company"). The Company specializes in
harnessing biological language modeling that results in correlations on real-time datasets to advance scientific
advancements and discoveries. Vector accomplishes unique and implicit biological connections of genes, proteins,
and other biochemicals, seeking to form and repurpose existing drugs/compounds to advance human health/well-
being on Earth and for space travel. Using the Company's CubeSats, a small satellite square object, specific
experiments can occur in zero gravity. Language modeling is the tip of the science behind AI solutions that can
establish relationships between molecular compounds to create novel products. Currently, Vector focuses on the
pharmaceutical industry, offering space experiments that can compound existing drugs for new uses and
applications. During the interview, Kasian showed Vector's 1-U model CubeSat. Kevin expects 2-3 CubeSat launch
weekly. The Company expects to generate revenues from those Companies that hire them to provide unique and
specific space experiments. Vector's corporate financial structure has two valuations: crypto and equity. Kasian
explains that he has yet to find Venture Capital (VC) or Investment Banking firms to produce a mathematical model
that creates a single valuation. SBIO is a security token that represents the Company's equity. Vector's parent
company, Vectorspace AI, has a utility token, VXV, that protects the dataset security and provenance on data-
driven innovation and discoveries from space experiments. Creating new and exciting compounds for the
betterment of humankind here on Earth and for Space travel, Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. is an up-and-coming
leader in the fast-growing space industry. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit
Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) - https://vectorspacebio.science/.

Brixton Albert, Founder and CEO of Performance Golf ("Performance"), talks about the Company with TV Host
Jane King from New to The Street's New York Stock Exchange Studio. Performance Golf is an interactive online
platform that helps golfers get better faster. The subscription platform allows players access to some of the world's
best golf instructors, who can offer direct online coaching or tutorial videos. Performance through digital courses,
training ads, specialized golf clubs, and AI can provide a one-stop place to improve a golfer's gameplay. Brixton
says slicing the ball is about 90% of golfers' problems. The "One Shot Slice Fix" is one of the platform's most
popular digital products subscribers seek. The second most popular product is the "Single Strike Sequence," which
provides instructions on better ball contact. The SF1 Driver golf club has built-in 5-unique features that can assist in
a remedy for slicing. The Performance Golf app's AI technology can evaluate a swing problem from the video and
send back a swing-fix AI-generated video with the suggested corrections for improvement. With many online
resources, YouTube videos, and golfing publications, information overloading doesn't provide a single-source
solution like Performance offers on its platform. Golf is the sport that makes the golfer's game worse without proper

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 580, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                            Bloomberg TV, Saturday, July 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

practice and coaching. The platform has some of the best golfing coaches in the world and one-on-one coaching;
otherwise, in-person lessons for the average golfer are unavailable. Hank Haney, Martin Chuck, David Leadbetter,
and other recognized coaches are available on the platform. Anyone learning to play golf or looking to improve their
overall golf games can become a subscriber by going to the Company's website - Performance Golf. The on-screen
QR code is available during the show; download or visit Performance Golf - https://www.performancegolf.com/.

From the New York Stock Exchange Studio, Ester Han, Press Speaker of MANEKI (CRYPTO: MANEKI)
($MANEKI), talks with New to The Street's TV Host Jan King about the Company and its cultural meme coin. The
MANEKI coin launched in April 2024 represents an ecosystem that combines Japanese Maneki-Neko cat
figurines/dolls, a symbol of good fortune and the crypto markets. It is a fun meme coin promoting positivity based on
Japanese culture and the communities associated with the Maneki-Neko tradition. Built on the Solana blockchain,
the ecosystem represents a community of active and vibrant end-users. Ester talks about how MANEKI is building
its global branding with high-profile endorsements, promoting merchandise, sports products, and more. Coin growth
continues, with active end-users increasing due to management's commitment to success, innovative marketing
techniques, and unique cultural appeal. MANEKI sponsors top athletes and continues aggressively growing its
digital marketing presence online through digital media outlets and advertisements. MANEKI, the “Good Luck,”
“Good Fortune” crypto cat meme token, is available on several crypto exchanges and on the Coin's website -
https://manekineko.world/. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit MANEKI -
https://manekineko.world/

On New to The Street, Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) ("Company") CEO and Founder,
Tony Raynor, talks with TV Host Jane King from the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio. SGTM is revolutionizing
sustainability using cutting-edge technology, converting waste into viable products. Agricultural companies can
meet their sustainability goals using SGTM's products and services. The Company diversified itself from making
mulch products by introducing cutting-edge, disruptive technologies that address the world's agricultural problems.
Tony explains that in addition to groundbreaking technologies, the Company has a global team of experts and
consultants with experience in finance, governmental agencies, and sustainability methodologies. The adage:
"Wisdom comes through the multitude of counsel" explains Tony's team of global personnel committed to
spearheading projects with the vision for immediate objectives and sustainable solutions. With personnel in the
Middle East, Australia, and the USA, Tony has the right team to launch all SGTM's products and services globally.
SGTM's technology converts waste into nutrient-rich soil, diminishing food insecurities while sequestering carbon,
reducing odors, and limiting diseases. SGTM's team and technologically advanced products are genuinely
revolutionary, and they have a global mission to scale upward to increase agricultural outputs dramatically. The
Company has a YouTube channel with many informative videos about the Company and its sustainable initiatives.
The on-screen QR code is available during the shows; download or visit Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. -
https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/.

New to the Street's "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security– The Weekly Hack" segment with internationally acclaimed
internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO of Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0)
($SWISF) and New to the Street's TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry discuss the most recent industry
"Hack"- Microsoft. Since 2020, when the "Solar Wind Hack" occurred due to a compromised Microsoft cyber
product, Microsoft has struggled with cybersecurity issues. The US SEC now requires public companies to disclose
timely cybersecurity issues in public filing outlining the hack problems. Large companies, public/private education
systems, universities, governmental agencies, and individuals utilize Microsoft products. Most internet end-users
globally utilize Office 365/Outlook to move information. Open-source email is what Alan calls an electronic postcard
that anyone on the net can access and read. To avoid limited or no cybersecurity emails, Alan recommends his
Company's Sekur privacy solutions, a full suite of security solutions for individuals, businesses, government,
schools, and enterprise organizations. SekurMail, with SekurSend/SekurReceive features, provides a military
encrypted platform hosted on the Company's servers in Switzerland. Recipients receive an invite from the Sekur
subscribers, which opens an encrypted path protected from potential hackers. The secure path allows the recipient
to have protected encrypted communication without being a Sekur subscriber. End-users can feel confident using
Sekur when sending sensitive information over the internet, setting emails with read limit options, password

                                                                                                 Page 4 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 580, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                            Bloomberg TV, Saturday, July 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

protections, and timeout notices. Sekur can migrate business domain email accounts, providing the same encrypted
protection and end-user features, significantly reducing the chances of a BEC – Business Email Compromise. The
Company's newest cybersecurity solution, SekurRelay, is an email technology feature that allows enterprises and
governments to format SekurMail's SekurSend feature with specific roles/functions. Alain also recommends its
SekurVPN services, which enable end-users to always appear as operating in Switzerland, masking a subscriber's
internet footprint. IP addresses are private under Switzerland's very tough privacy laws. Sekur owns its servers, has
proprietary technology, doesn't use 3rd party software/hardware, has no data mining, never asks for phone
numbers, and has no open-source codes/platforms. The Company offers PROMO CODE: PRIVACY, a 15%
savings on any of Sekur's subscription services. Viewers, please tune in next time for the newest cybersecurity
topic on the "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security– Weekly Hack" segment. The on-screen QR code is available during
the shows to download more info or visit Sekur Private Data, Ltd. – https://sekurprivatedata.com/, http:/sekur.com/
and https://sekurvpn.com/. Privacy has arrived!

About Ernst & Young Global Limited (EY):

Ernst & Young's (EY) aims to build a better working world. The insights and services EY provides help create long-
term value for clients, people, and society and build trust in the capital markets. EY develops outstanding leaders
who work in teams to deliver on promises to its stakeholders. In so doing, EY plays a crucial role in building a better
working world for its people, clients, and communities—https://www.ey.com/en_us.

About Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ($BTDR) ("Bitdeer"):

Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ("Bitdeer") is a world-leading technology company for blockchain
and high-performance computing. Bitdeer is committed to providing comprehensive computing solutions for its
customers. Bitdeer handles complex processes involved in computing, such as equipment procurement, transport
logistics, data center design and construction, equipment management, and daily operations. Bitdeer also offers
advanced cloud capabilities to customers who are in high demand for artificial intelligence. Headquartered in
Singapore, Bitdeer has deployed data centers in the United States, Norway, and Bhutan - https://www.bitdeer.com/.

About Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO):

Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO), the parent company of Vectorspace AI (VXV), and its scientific
collaborators design, develop, and launch biological CubeSats to generate and interpret unique datasets related to
microgravity and radiation. This leads to the development of countermeasures against diseases associated with
stressors connected to protecting and repairing the human body during spaceflight. This includes using a network of
scientific data engineering pipelines to build targeted language models resulting in real-time datasets that power
Artificial Intelligence (AI) operations in space biosciences, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical development.
Working with leading scientific labs in human aging, cancer, and nutrigenomics, the Company aims to accelerate
the process of new hypothesis generation and novel discoveries in space biosciences, including materials sciences
in nanotechnology and nanomedicines. Developing advanced large and small language modeling/AI technologies,
our platform can produce more than 100,000,000,000 different real-time datasets to accelerate discoveries.
Innovations in space biosciences result in products and services for all industries, including the financial markets,
and more importantly, new forms of precision medicine for all humankind - https://vectorspacebio.science/.

About Performance Golf:

Performance Golf is a leading online golf instruction company that provides golfers of all levels with the tools and
resources they need to take their game to the next level. Performance Golf aims to help 1 million amateur golfers
play the best golf of their lives and enjoy every minute. Everything a golfer needs to reach their full potential is
available at Performance Golf, LLC. Performance Golf has grown into one of the world's leading online golf
instruction companies by consistently providing the highest quality instruction and resources available to
experienced and novice golfers. Play the best golf of your life every day. Join Performance Golf -
https://www.performancegolf.com/.

                                                                                                 Page 5 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 580, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                            Bloomberg TV, Saturday, July 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

About Meme Coin MANEKI (CRYPTO: MANEKI) ($MANEKI):

MANEKI (CRYPTO: MANEKI) ($MANEKI), built on the Solana blockchain, is a meme-native cat coin. $MANEKI,
known as the Japanese beckoning cat, is a legendary leader with the wisdom of ages and the power to bring
fortune to those who rally under its banner. $MANEKI symbolizes good luck, success, prosperity, wisdom, and
leadership - https://manekineko.world/.

About Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM):

Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) is a leading Company in climate reversing technologies, a
provider of sustainable solutions to improve environmental health, promote sustainable practices, and deliver eco-
friendly products and services. SGTM aims to make significant contributions to global sustainability; learn more by
visiting the Company website, https://thesustainablegreenteam.com/, SGTM's YouTube Channel, corporate
commercial          -       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_0rLESvJJ0,           corporate           video      -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJ7Dp9Coi88&t=1s                and           SGTM's              Blogs           -
https://thesustainablegreenteam.com/sgtm-blog.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About New to The Street:

New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running US and International
sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street." Since 2009, New to
The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S . television networks. The Nielsen-rated
and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US and international markets.
FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg and the FOX Business Network as sponsored
programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form paid
programming - https://newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all filings of the Companies
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.

                                                                                                 Page 6 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 580, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                            Bloomberg TV, Saturday, July 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT: New to The Street Monica Brennan monica@NewtoTheStreet.com               https://newtothestreet.com/ 1-
917-330-2564

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                   at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/19fac0ad-c259-4d47-83b8-c0113a204f6e

New to The Street Announces Episode 580, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
Bloomberg TV, Saturday, July 13, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

Episode 580: 1). Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ($BTDR)& Ernst & Young Global Limited
(EY).2). Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) 3). Performance Golf 4). Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTC:
SGTM) ($SGTM)5). Meneki Coin (CRYPTO: MANEKI) ($MANEKI) 6). Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF)
(CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®) - www.newtothestreet.com


Load-Date: July 12, 2024


  
