

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
      Zayo Unveils Next-Level Infrastructure Upgrades-Powering High-Bandwidth Connectivity for Technology
                                        Evolution, Today and for the Future




 Zayo Unveils Next-Level Infrastructure Upgrades-Powering High-Bandwidth
      Connectivity for Technology Evolution, Today and for the Future
                                                   Business Wire
                                      April 3, 2024 Wednesday 1:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 813 words
Dateline: DENVER

Body


Zayo Group , a leading global provider of fiber network infrastructure, today announced its latest round of critical
infrastructure upgrades, including its newest long-haul dark fiber route connecting Columbus to Pittsburgh and a
highly sought-after 400G-enabled wavelength route connecting Washington, D.C. and Atlanta. Zayo is also
expanding its leading IP network with the addition of 27 critical IP points of presence (PoPs) and 400G peering
locations across North America.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.             View       the      full      release      here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240403730832/en/

Zayo's North American 400G Capabilities (Graphic: Business Wire)

"While technology innovations like AI and next-gen cloud surge ahead, continued investment in network
infrastructure to support this demand is critical. As the largest independent network, Zayo is in a prime position to
bring network infrastructure up to par with today's innovation, and ensure we and our customers are ready for
what's next," said Bill Long, Chief Product & Strategy Officer at Zayo. "Our latest infrastructure expansions
demonstrate our continuous efforts to provide our customers with unique, diverse, low-latency routes - where they
need it today and where we know they'll need it tomorrow."

What's New:

Carrier-Diverse 400G Leadership

Zayo has acquired a new unique, physically diverse, and ultra-low-latency route between D.C. and Atlanta,
providing the most direct connectivity between the two major markets and key economic hubs.

With low latency and complete route diversity from other heavily trafficked routes between the markets, the new
route from Zayo creates diversity not available anywhere else. The route also connects with Zayo's unique financial
routes and southern rail routes, enabling North-to-South and coast-to-coast connectivity and resiliency.

Zayo has also added four additional routes to its 400G network-currently the largest 400G network in North
America-in key markets including:

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 3
        Zayo Unveils Next-Level Infrastructure Upgrades-Powering High-Bandwidth Connectivity for Technology
                                          Evolution, Today and for the Future

    •     Indianapolis to Columbus
    •     Cut Bank, Mont. to Calgary
    •     New Orleans to Ponchatoula, La.
    •     Grand Rapids, Mich. to Lansing, Mich.

Why it Matters: As data-intensive next-generation technologies continue to grow, so does the need for bandwidth.
The deployment of 400G is essential for delivering a network that is future-ready to handle this growth. With the
expansion of its 400G network, Zayo is focused on delivering modernized capabilities and access to carrier-diverse
routes that allow customers to innovate with the low latency, high availability, disaster resiliency, and performance
they need.

Long-Haul Diversity and Scalability

Zayo has built a fully unique long-haul dark fiber route connecting Columbus to Pittsburgh. The route is carrier-
diverse, 100% underground, and built with a high fiber count for maximum scalability and uptime availability.

Why it Matters: As growing economic hubs, Pittsburgh and Columbus house critical industries like tech,
government, and an emerging data center community that require route diversity and low latency to maintain the
critical aspects of their business. Zayo's new route provides the most modern and robust long-haul infrastructure to
support the current connectivity needs and ensure they're able to scale as these markets continue to grow.

Strengthening IP Core

Zayo has added sixteen new North American IP PoPs, including in key locations across California, Colorado,
Maryland, New Jersey, Ohio and Ontario. In addition, the company has eleven new 400G IP peering locations set
for rollout in 2024, including across strategic markets and data center hubs like Toronto, Seattle, Phoenix, Dallas,
and Chicago.

Why it matters: The rapid growth of technologies like AI has made fast and scalable access to capacity a hot
commodity. The addition of new IP PoPs and peering locations to Zayo's tier-1 IP network guarantees scalable and
dependable capacity availability. Built on Zayo's wholly-owned fiber backbone, Zayo's IP network also ensures
enhanced reliability and performance with reduced latency to support the high-speed connectivity these applications
require.

To learn more about Zayo's latest network expansion and its global network capabilities, please visit
https://www.zayo.com/resources/global-network-capabilities/ .

About Zayo

For more than 17 years, Zayo has empowered some of the world's largest and most innovative companies to
connect what's next for their business. Zayo's future-ready network spans over 17.5 million fiber miles and 144,000
route miles. Zayo's tailored connectivity and edge solutions enable carriers, cloud providers, data centers, schools,
and enterprises to deliver exceptional experiences, from edge to core to cloud. Discover how Zayo connects what's
next at www.zayo.com and follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240403730832/en/


CONTACT: Kayla Bodel
Walker Sands for Zayo Group

press@zayo.com

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
     Zayo Unveils Next-Level Infrastructure Upgrades-Powering High-Bandwidth Connectivity for Technology
                                       Evolution, Today and for the Future


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


Zayo's North American 400G Capabilities (Graphic: Business Wire)


Load-Date: April 3, 2024


  
