

                                                                                                Page 1 of 3
     2024 Outlook: Middle Market Companies Set Financial Growth Records, Yet Remain Cautiously Optimistic
                                            Amid Emerging Risks




 2024 Outlook: Middle Market Companies Set Financial Growth Records, Yet
            Remain Cautiously Optimistic Amid Emerging Risks
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         February 22, 2024 Thursday 10:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1626 words
Dateline: WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J., Feb. 22, 2024

Body


PR NewswireNew Chubb and National Center of Middle Market Survey reveals inflation remains the number one
risk, and rising concerns over cybersecurity, natural catastrophes and insurance coverage gapsWHITEHOUSE
STATION, N.J., Feb. 22, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Chubb and the National Center for the Middle Market (NCMM)
released todaynew datathat reveals middle market companies demonstrated continued robust growth against the
backdrop of inflationary pressures, cybersecurity threats, natural catastrophes and insurance coverage gaps. These
findings are the centerpiece of the 2023 Year-End Middle Market Indicator (MMI).Middle market companies
reported strong revenue growth compared to one year ago. On average, revenue was up 12.4%. More than half
(55%) generated revenue growth of 10% or more. And more than eight in 10 (83%) said revenues were up year
over year. These results are the highest since the MMI began surveying companies in 2012. "Middle market
companies are a bellwether for the overall health of the U.S. economy, and our survey shows they are posting
record growth," said Ben Rockwell, Division President, Chubb Middle Market.

"The findings of the MMI provide relevant direction and insights for agents and brokers to best counsel middle
market companies in navigating and mitigating the risk management pressures with this critical business
segment."Increasing preparedness for emerging risks continues to be top of mind for the middle market. According
to the MMI, firms believed they were completely or very prepared to respond to the following disruptions:Inflation
(45%)Catastrophic incidents (53%)Cybersecurity threats (58%)However, compared to results from the MMI report
in the second quarter of 2023, businesses indicated a pullback on expansion plans. In the latest report, three out of
five companies (61%) said they plan to introduce a new product or service in the year ahead, versus 68% in the
mid-2023 survey. There were similar declines for expansion into new domestic markets (55% vs. 62%) and adding
a new plant/facility (42% vs. 48%).Inflation Number One RiskThe MMI found inflation continued to be the number
one risk for companies, and likely to persist due to rising labor costs and geographic conflicts impacting trade
routes.Nearly 60% say they find managing inflation extremely or very challenging, with higher wages as a major
factor fueling cost pressures. To combat inflation and lingering recession worries, companies say they plan on
raising prices and increasing their use of AI to improve efficiencies and data analytics.Damage from Weather
Events Increase in SeverityThe U.S. was impacted by a record 28 separate billion-dollar climate disaster events
in 2023, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and respondents view this as a
significant risk to their firms heading into 2024. Nearly half (48%) say it's a top three factor in their insurance
purchasing decisions. Over half of firms (53%) indicated they are completely or very prepared for disruption from

                                                                                               Page 2 of 3
    2024 Outlook: Middle Market Companies Set Financial Growth Records, Yet Remain Cautiously Optimistic
                                           Amid Emerging Risks

catastrophic incidents. The MMI confirmed the importance of developing business continuity plans, as 44% of firms
say they only recovered partially or not at all from an operational disruption."Middle market companies can benefit
from the expertise and knowledge their agent or broker possess in preparing for short- and long-term catastrophe
events," Michelle McLaughlin, Executive Vice President and Chief Underwriting Officer, Chubb Middle Market,
added. "This advice can translate into securing adequate coverage protection, risk mitigation strategies, business
continuity planning and physical risk assessments for middle market companies achieving a more protected
future."Cybersecurity Concerns RisingThe threat landscape for managing cybersecurity looms large for middle
market companies, with 33% identifying insufficient cybersecurity protection. Other notable findings include:More
than three in five (62%) survey respondents indicated cyber security as one of their top concerns factoring into their
insurance purchasing decisions.Nearly half of companies (47%) believed they had adequate cyber insurance in
place.A majority (52%) acknowledged that they needed or were considering the coverage."As the predictability of
cyber threats becomes more difficult, the MMI survey shows the urgent need for companies to address cyber risks
to prevent catastrophic disruptions," said Mike Kessler, Division President, Chubb Global Cyber Risk. "We work
with companies and their broker or agent to provide insight into the causes of cyber incidents and cyber security
solutions to help prevent attacks, as well as assess protection gaps and tailor coverage to help clients recover from
a cyber incident."Insurance Gaps RecognizedMiddle market companies acknowledge that their overall needs for
particular coverages were greater than what they had envisioned in their initial planning efforts. In terms of only
adequacy and needs, respondents shared the following:Multinational – 36% said they were adequately covered,
but 47% indicated they need or are considering additional protection.Environmental (pollution liability) – 40% said
they were adequately covered, but more than half (51%) said they need or are considering additional
protection.Cyber insurance – 47% said they were adequately covered, but 52% indicated said they need or are
considering additional protection.Chubb's Executive Summary with detailed findings are availablehere. Additional
industry insights will be forthcoming across manufacturing, technology, financial services, and life
sciences.Upcoming 2024 Middle Market WebinarJoin the National Center of Middle Markets' Doug Farren and
Chubb executives on Thursday, March 21 from 2 PM – 3 PM EST for a dynamic webcast panel discussion around
the Year-End Middle Market Indicator findings. The webinar will focus on cyber insurance and other specialty areas,
along with our perspective on other trending topics cited in the MMI. Check out the NCMM/Chubb Insights page for
webcast registrationhere.About the Middle Market Indicator (MMI)Chubb partners with the National Center for the
Middle Market in supporting the Middle Market Indicator (MMI), part of a bi-annual flagship research report started
in 2012. The MMI surveys 1,000 executives (CEOs, CFOs and other financial decision-makers) from middle market
companies and was fielded in Dec. of 2023 to explore middle market company executive thoughts regarding
business capabilities, performance, growth drivers and economic outlook, among other topics. The survey is
weighted to accurately reflect the size, industry-wide, and geographic distribution of this sector. These are
companies with $10 million to $1 billion in annual revenue, which represent one-third of private sector GDP,
employing approximately 48 million people. The survey is conducted by RTi Research on behalf of the National
Center for the Middle Market, which is housed at the Ohio State University Max M. Fisher College of Business. The
margin of error is 3.1%, which declines to 2.7% at the 75% level.About the National Center for the Middle Market
(NCMM)The National Center for the Middle Market is a collaboration between The Ohio State University Fisher
College of Business, Chubb and Visa. It exists for a single purpose: to ensure that the vitality and robustness of
middle market companies are fully realized as fundamental to our nation's economic outlook and prosperity. The
center is the leading source of knowledge, leadership and innovative research on the middle market economy,
providing critical data analysis and insights for companies, policymakers and other key stakeholders. NCMM is fully
committed to funding and distributing the most credible open-sourced research, dynamically creating new
knowledge, providing programs that drive value for middle market companies and offering a well-informed outlook
on the health and future of the middle market via theMiddle Market Indicator.About ChubbChubb is a world leader
in insurance. With operations in 54 countries and territories, Chubb provides commercial and personal property and
casualty insurance, personal accident and supplemental health insurance, reinsurance and life insurance to a
diverse group of clients. As an underwriting company, we assess, assume and manage risk with insight and
discipline. We service and pay our claims fairly and promptly. The company is also defined by its extensive product
and service offerings, broad distribution capabilities, exceptional financial strength and local operations globally.
Parent company Chubb Limited is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: CB) and is a component of the
S&P 500 index. Chubb maintains executive offices in Zurich, New York, London, Paris and other locations, and

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
    2024 Outlook: Middle Market Companies Set Financial Growth Records, Yet Remain Cautiously Optimistic
                                           Amid Emerging Risks

employs approximately 40,000 people worldwide. Additional information can be found at: www.chubb.com.Chubb is
the marketing name used to refer to subsidiaries of Chubb Limited providing insurance and related services. For a
list of these subsidiaries, please visit our website atwww.chubb.com. Insurance provided by ACE American
Insurance Company and its U.S.- based Chubb underwriting company affiliates. All products may not be available
in all states. This communication contains product summaries only. Coverage is subject to the language of the
policies as actually issued. Surplus lines insurance sold only through licensed surplus lines producers. Chubb, 202
Hall's Mill Road, Whitehouse Station, NJ 08889-1600. View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-
releases/2024-outlook-middle-market-companies-set-financial-growth-records-yet-remain-cautiously-optimistic-
amid-emerging-risks-302068877.htmlSOURCE Chubb INA Holdings


Load-Date: February 22, 2024


  
