

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 3
                           THE CASE FOR DIRECT DEMOCRACY: CITIZENS' ASSEMBLIES




           THE CASE FOR DIRECT DEMOCRACY: CITIZENS' ASSEMBLIES
                                               States News Service
                                              March 5, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 966 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by New America:

By

Hollie Russon Gilman

and

Amy Eisenstein

March 5, 2024

"I just remember getting so upset in 2020 with how everything in the world just [seemed] so chaotic and nobody
could see eye-to-eye anymore."

When Alejandro Salazar thinks about being on a college campus during the 2016 presidential election, he
remembers feeling frustrated by increasing divides between people and communities. "When it came to politics, it
was 'my way or the highway,' and that was very evident," Alejandro continues.

He's not alone in his frustration. Trust in the government has plummeted to its lowest point in nearly seven
decades. Two-in-three Americans say they consistently feel "exhausted" by politics. The top two words they use to
describe U.S. politics are "divisive" and "corrupt." Even young people are feeling disillusioned. There is a general
sense of pessimism in regards to our country's future.

Where does this leave the state of civic engagement in America? Despite their dissatisfaction in electoral politics,
there is consensus among Americans on two fronts: the urgency to address climate change, and faith in local
governments over federal oversight. Although views generally differ across partisan lines, nearly three quarters of
Americans "support U.S. participation in international efforts to reduce the effects of climate change." And 67
percent trust their local governments to handle local issues, which is over double the percentage of Americans who
trust the federal government.

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 3
                        THE CASE FOR DIRECT DEMOCRACY: CITIZENS' ASSEMBLIES

As a way to build on these sentiments, many localities are turning to citizens' assemblies to help engage people
locally on the issues they care about, and engage them in the long-haul rather than in a one-off election year.
These assemblies bring together a randomly selected and demographically diverse group of individuals to
participate in a democratic decision-making process, discussing specific issues facing their communities.

Alejandro Salazar participated in the Unify Montrose assembly in 2023 to deliberate childcare solutions in his
community of Montrose, Colorado. His experience completely changed his orientation toward politics. "I was just in
complete awe...there was never any conflict in the groups, and there was disagreement, but there was no
animosity. And we were just able to talk."

Unify Montrose hosted an assembly of randomly selected citizens to represent the demographic diversity of the
community, who spent 12 weeks deliberating on how to improve the state of childcare in their community. Sixty-four
delegates were paid $15 per hour for their time, and ultimately voted on a number of actions to improve the
community.

Citizens' assemblies focused on climate, or "climate assemblies," are also gaining traction. Washington state
hosted a climate assembly in 2021, and in their 2024 proposed budget, they have suggested the state's
Department of Social and Health Services facilitate public assemblies in partnership with community-based
organizations to help decide on policy solutions and funding allotments for climate-resiliency.

In Colorado, RadicalXChange helped the Office of Climate Preparedness and Disaster Recovery (CPO) host public
deliberation on CPO's roadmap for responsiveness to climate impacts in the state. RadicalXChange hosted online
deliberations and plural voting with a lottery-selected cohort of citizens, where they discussed "their anxieties, fears,
challenges... and then their hopes and what they want to see, what a better future would look like, what services
they want to see from the state." Participants ranked their climate priorities, which will ultimately influence the state
agency's roadmap.

While climate assemblies are just gaining traction here in the United States, Europe and the U.K. have implemented
climate assemblies for years. In the mid 2010s, a randomly selected group of 100 Irish citizens deliberated climate
change among other issues. In 2022, Brussels launched a permanent citizens' assembly on climate. To build on
these efforts at a global level, DemocracyNext is convening an international task force on democratizing city
planning, with an eye toward how urban planning decision-making processes could influence policy issues like
climate change.

Globally, 2024 is a big year for elections. More than two billion voters across 50 countries will head to the polls in a
record-breaking number of elections around the world, deciding the fate of over four billion people.

But our current expectations around democracyvoting every two to four years for a candidate who, evidence shows,
does not adhere to what Americans expectdoes not empower citizens to regularly make choices for themselves and
their communities. Citizen assemblies provide an opportunity for Americans to deliberate among one another on
pressing issues like climate change and to produce actionable recommendations toward a more hopeful future.

Of his experience in a citizens' assembly, Alejandro says, "Everybody's life story gives meaning to their decisions...
You can still work together to make a solution even though you might disagree on the details."

You May Also Like

How Civic Space Can Foster Inclusion and Belonging (The Thread, 2023): Social isolation is a threat to our health.
In Albany, New York, the Westminster Commons provides a space to bring people back together.

The Remedy for America's Loneliness Problem? Restoring Our Civic Health (The Thread, 2023): In the U.S., we
are lonelier than ever. Reinvesting in our civic infrastructurethe people and places that bring our communities
togetheris one solution.

AI for the People, By the People (The Thread, 2023): AI is everywhere, from writing emails to taking headshots, this
new co-gov model activates the general public to weigh in on how AI is used.

                                                                           Page 3 of 3
                     THE CASE FOR DIRECT DEMOCRACY: CITIZENS' ASSEMBLIES


Load-Date: March 6, 2024


  
