

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 8
                                        FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024




                             FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024
                                                       US Fed News
                                             March 29, 2024 Friday 12:31 PM EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 4077 words

Body


TALLAHASSEE, Fla., March 29 -- Florida State University issued the following news release:

Florida State University's faculty and staff are central to its mission and the key to its countless accomplishments.

Throughout the year, honors and recognitions are awarded to individual faculty and staff members across campus.
Faculty and Staff Briefs are produced monthly to recognize accomplishments and provide a space where honors,
awards, bylines, presentations, grants, service and any other notable items can be showcased.

ARCHIVE

Murray Gibson, Ph.D. (FAMU-FSU College of Engineering) was named as the Distinguished Scientist (Physical
Sciences) for 2024 by the Microscopy Society of America. The award honors Gibson's work in transmission
electron microscopy applied to various materials problems over his career.

Andrea De Giorgi, Ph.D. (Department of Classics) was awarded the 2024 Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation
Award for his research on the excavation of Altinum in Venice, Italy.

Thomas Joiner, Ph.D. (Department of Psychology) was awarded the Professional and Scholarly Excellence Award
from the Association of American Publishers for his book "The Varieties of Suicidal Experience: A New Theory of
Suicidal Violence."

Carolina S. Velasquez, Ph.D. (Geography & African American Studies, COSSPP) was selected as a mentee in the
inaugural cohort of the Florida State University ADVANCE Cohort Network Program, which bridges the gap in
mentoring networks for women faculty in STEM fields at FSU.

Erica Harbatkin, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) received the 2024 American
Educational Research Association Innovative School Transformation and Reform Emerging Scholar Award.

Casey Dozier, Ph.D. (The Career Center) received the 2024 NCDA Outstanding Career Practitioner Award for her
scholarly pursuits, application of theory to practice, direct career service, teaching, international collaborations and
years of service to the profession. Dozier will be honored at the NCDA Global Conference in San Diego in June.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 8
                                  FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024

Sarah Butler (University Housing) was awarded the prestigious Charles W. Beene Memorial Service Award at this
year's Southeastern Association of Housing Officers Conference.

Meredith Lynn, PFA (College of Fine Arts) was awarded a fellowship from the Halo Arts Project. The funding will
support her upcoming exhibitions in Philadelphia and St. Augustine.

Riley Krotz, Ph.D. (College of Business) received a $20,000 grant from FSU's Council on Research and Creativity
for the project "Increasing Short- and Long-Term Blood Donations: A Longitudinal Comparison of Public and Private
Events."

Pedro Fernandez-Caban, Ph.D. (FAMU-FSU College of Engineering) received a National Science Foundation
CAREER Award, a grant given to promising up-and-coming researchers and future faculty leaders.

Sena Karatas-Ozturk, M.A. (Learning Systems Institute) was awarded a dissertation research grant from the Florida
State University Graduate School, Congress of Graduate Students, the Office of the Provost and the Office of
Research.

Eileen Bischof, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) received a $545,592 grant from the
Florida Department of Education for her project "Critical Initiatives in Visual Impairments (CIVI)."

Ravinder Nagpal, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) received a $130,673 grant as part of
a Wake Forest University subaward from the National Institutes of Health for his project "Mechanisms of Klebsiella
Pneumoniae Gastrointestinal Colonization."

Ravinder Nagpal, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) received a $100,000 grant from the
Florida Department of Health for his project "Mechanisms of Klebsiella Pneumonia Infection-Mediated Pathobiome
in Alzheimer's Neuropathology."

Ravinder Nagpal, Ph.D., and Joseph Watso, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) are co-
principal investigators on a $75,000 grant from the National Watermelon Promotion Board for their project, "Effect of
Daily Fresh Watermelon Consumption on Gut and Cardiometabolic Health in Young Adults with Overweight and
Obesity."

Laura Reid Marks, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) received a $35,265 award from the
National Institutes of Health for her project "A Qualitative Analysis of Social and Behavioral Processes Associated
with Self-Change in Drinking in an Existing Cohort of Black and White Emerging Adults."

Joseph Watso, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) received a $15,400 subaward for a
collaboration with the Naval Submarine Medical Research Laboratory on his project "Hyperbaria and Muscle
Sympathetic Outflow."

Yanyun Yang, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) received a $129,658 grant from the
Florida Department of Education to support graduate interns at Florida State University.

Lonna Rae Atkeson, Ph.D. (Political Science, COSSPP) received a grant from Public Agenda for its Democracy
Renewal Project to study the effects of nonpartisan academic election observers at vote centers in Sandoval
County, New Mexico.

Changhyun (Lyon) Nam, Ph.D. (Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship) published "Virtual Design Pedagogy:
Understanding the Metaverse and Improving Creative Design Skills Using ZEPETO Studio Platform&#8482;" in the
international journal of fashion design, technology and education.

Meredith McQuerry, Ph.D. (Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship) published "An Antimicrobial Zinc Ion Fiber for
COVID-19 Prevention in Nonwoven Face Coverings for Healthcare Settings: in the Journal of Occupational and
Environmental Hygiene.

                                                                                                    Page 3 of 8
                                 FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024

Daniel Kaplan, Ph.D. (FSU London) co-authored the paper "Crepant resolutions of stratified varieties via gluing,"
published by arXiv.

Agata Pacho, Ph.D. (FSU London) authored "How the Past Matters in HIV Healthcare Delivery: A Case Study of
Long-Term Survivors of the Epidemic Who Identify as Gay Men," published by the Berghahn Journals.

Luca Bufano, Ph.D. (FSU Florence) authored "Primavera di Bellezza, Fenoglio, Gadda e l'8 Settembre," published
by L'Indice dei libri. The article was later read and reviewed on Rai Radio 3, the cultural channel of the Italian
National Public Radio.

Rahoul Masrani, Ph.D. (FSU Florence) co-authored "Bollywood's London: The Moral-Political Undertow of London's
Hindi Cinema Presence," published by the Manchester University Press.

Gashaye Tefera, Ph.D. (College of Social Work) co-authored "Mental Health Interventions for Individuals with
Serious Mental Illness in the Criminal Legal System: A Systematic Review," published by BMC Psychiatry.

Jessica Pryce, Ph.D. (College of Social Work) authored the book "Broken: Transforming Child Protective Services -
Notes of a Former Caseworker," published by Amistad.

Kristy Anderson, Ph.D. (College of Social Work) co-authored the article "Low-Income Households of Children with
Autism and the Economic Safety Net," published by Academic Pediatrics.

Aimee Boutin, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) co-edited the collective volume
"Redecouvrir Louisa Siefert (1845-1877): richesse d'une &#339;uvre de femme a l'ere de la modernite" for
&#201;ditions Honore Champion.

Martin Munro, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) authored "The Broken Mirror Roundtable:
Gender, Performance, Language, Frenchness," published by Contemporary French Civilization.

Michelle Bumatay, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) authored the chapter "The Feminine
Plural in Africa and the Diaspora: Quartets of Women in Aya de Yopougon and La vie d'Ebene Duta" in the book
"Drawing (in) the Feminine: Bande Dessinee and Women," published by the Ohio State University Press.

Pablo Maurette, Ph.D. (Department of English) published his second novel "La Ni&#241;a de Oro" with Anagrama,
one of the most prestigious Spanish publishing houses.

E. Gontarski, Ph.D. (Department of English) authored two books, "Bad Godots: 'Vladimir Emerges from the Barrel'
and Other Interventions," published by Cambridge University Press and "Samuel Beckett: Os Pequenos (Grandes)
Textos Teatrais [Samuel Beckett: The Shorter (Great) Plays]," published by Giostri Editora.

Stephanie Leitch, Ph.D. (College of Fine Arts) published a new book "Early Modern Print Media and the Art of
Observation: Training a Literate Eye"by Cambridge University Press.

Silvia Valisa, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) authored the chapter "What Did Late
Nineteenth-Century Italian Women Write?: The Italian Contribution to the Woman's Building Library of the World
Fair in Chicago (1893)" in the book "Global Voices from the Women's Library at the World's Columbian Exposition,"
published by Palgrave Macmillan.

Vincent Joos, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) authored "Knowledge, Solidarity, and
Action: New Paradigms in Disaster Studies," published by the Journal of Haitian Studies.

Gary VanLandingham, Ph.D. (Askew School, COSSPP) authored a guest column, "Plugging the Leaks in the
Evidence Pipeline," for the B&G Report, a national newsletter on public management.

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 8
                                  FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024

Qinchun Rao, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) and doctoral students Xingyi Jiang and
Juan Gao co-authored "Raman Spectroscopy-Based Chemometrics for Pesticide Residue Detection: Current
Approaches and Future Challenges" published in ACS Agricultural Science & Technology.

Jake Linford, J.D. (College of Law) co-authored the article "Calculating the Harms of Political Use of Popular
Music," published by the UC Law Journal.

Riley Krotz, Ph.D. (College of Business) presented "Exploring Racial Inequities Among Blood Donors: Quantifying
Lives Saved, Donor Attrition, and Firm Revenue" in Washington, D.C., at the annual meeting of America's Blood
Centers, whose organizations provide nearly 60 percent of the U.S. blood supply.

Nicole Patton Terry, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) presented "Delivering on the
Promise of the Science of Reading for All Learners" at the 2024 Dyslexia-SPELD Foundation Language, Literacy,
and Learning Conference.

Beth Philips, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) presented "Learning to Communicate:
Tips to Support Kid's Language Acquisition" at the Leon County Library.

Sonia Cabell, Ph.D. (College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences) presented "Writing into Literacy:
Leveraging Writing in the Early Years to Promote Reading" at The AIM Institute for Learning & Research: 12th
Annual Research to Practice Symposium.

Mark McNees, Ph.D. (Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship) presented "Leveraging AI in Systems Change
Education" at the global Systems Mapping conference, hosted by Oxford University.

Costanza Menchi, MA (FSU Florence) presented his short film "Fiorentine4.0" at the Eredita delle Donne Festival in
November 2023.

Flavia Ramos-Mattoussi, Ed.D. (Learning Systems Institute) virtually presented "Photography as Protest: Hidden
Layers" at the Comparative and International Education Conference.

Brenda Wawire, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) was a non-presenting author at the "Digital Inclusion of
Students with Visual Impairment: A Usability Evaluation of Digital Information System Interface" presentation at the
Comparative and International Education Conference in Miami.

Adrienne Barnes-Story, Ph.D. and Jennie Robinette, M.Ed. (Learning Systems Institute) presented "Utilizing Open-
Source Technology Platforms to Interrupt Traditional Norms of Development" at the Comparative and International
Education Conference in Miami.

Ana H. Marty, Ph.D., Marion Fesmire, Ed.D. and Kate Schell, M.A. (Learning Systems Institute) presented
"Empowering Stakeholders to Make Meaningful Change for Literacy: Participatory Research to Foster Collective
Action across Pre-Service and In-Service Teacher Development" at the Comparative and International Education
Conference in Miami.

Augustine Kamlongera (Learning Systems Institute) presented "How do Private School Teachers raise their voices
against injustice? Case Studies from India and Pakistan" at the Comparative and International Education
Conference in Miami. Bhushan Dahal, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) served as a discussant at the
presentation.

Stephanie Zuilkowski, Ed.D. (Learning Systems Institute) presented "Exploring Perceived Impacts of the Transition
from Learning Literacy in Local Languages to Learning in English in Serenje District, Zambia" at the Comparative
and International Education Conference in Miami. Amogh Basavaraj, M.A. (Learning Systems Institute) was a non-
presenting author at the presentation.

Marion Fesmire, Ed.D. (Learning Systems Institute) presented "Transforming Pre-service Teacher Education
Through a Year-long Foundational Literacy Course" at the Comparative and International Education Conference in

                                                                                                   Page 5 of 8
                                 FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024

Miami. Probak Karim, M,S. and Brenda Wawire, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) were non-presenting authors on
the presentation.

Augustine Kamlongera (Learning Systems Institute) presented "Strengthening Teacher Education Across Malawi:
Collaboration, Training, and Development" at the Comparative and International Education Conference in Miami.
Adrienne Barnes-Story, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) served as a discussant at the presentation.

Flavia Ramos-Mattoussi, Ed.D. (Learning Systems Institute) chaired and presented "Reflecting on the Uzbekistan
Education for Excellence Program: Challenging the Status Quo and Fostering Change Through Innovation" at the
Comparative and International Education Conference in Miami. Stephanie Zuilkowski, Ph.D. (Learning Systems
Institute) served as a discussant at the presentation.

Ana H. Marty, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) authored the paper presentation "Collaborative Solutions:
Exploring Multi-Agency Partnerships to Strengthen the Teaching Practicum in Low-Income Contexts" at the
Comparative and International Education Conference in Miami.

Brenda Wawire, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) was a non-presenting author at "The Role of Gender-
Responsive Pedagogy Inside the Classroom in Promoting School Attendance in Kenya" at the Comparative and
International Education Conference in Miami.

Stephanie Zuilkowski, Ed.D. and Ana H. Marty, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) held a Relevant Research
Roundtable with the FSU Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies to discuss their work on the
USAID Transforming Teacher Education in Zambia activity.

Adrienne Barnes-Story, Ph.D. and Brenda Wawire, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) presented "Teacher
Pedagogical Content Knowledge & its Association with L1 Literacy Development: The Case of Malawi" in a
roundtable session at the American Association for Applied Linguistics conference in Houston.

Brenda Wawire, Ph.D. and Adrienne Barnes-Story, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) presented "Literacy
Instruction, Student Engagement, and Emergent Literacy Skill Growth: Evidence from a School Readiness Program
in Kenya" at the American Association for Applied Linguistics conference in Houston.

Brian Sayre and Rachel Blakesley Ph.D. (University Housing) presented their "Best of Florida" session "From Great
Resignation to Great Reimagination: Addressing the Recruitment & Retention Needs in Housing" at the
Southeastern Association of Housing Officers Conference.

Aimee Boutin, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) delivered the invited lecture "Teaching the
Humanities in a Divided America" at Clemson University and delivered the keynote address at the Graduate
Student Conference in Francophone Studies at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette.

Alina Dana Weber, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) presented the paper "For the Love of
History: Reenactment and Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds" at the "Entrenched Narratives, Hidden Figures"
conference at Warwick University in Coventry, United Kingdom.

Carolina Gonzalez, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) presented the co-authored paper
"Acquiring prosodic phrasing: A longitudinal study" at the Current Approaches to Spanish and Portuguese Second
Language Phonology (CASPSLaP), hosted by North Carolina State University and University of North Carolina.

Martin Munro, Ph.D. (Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics) delivered the Gabriel Coulthard and
William Mailer Memorial Lecture "The Other Americans: J. Michael Dash and the U.W.I. Generation" at the
University of the West Indies in Mona, Jamaica.

Molly Hand, Ph.D. (Department of English) gave the pre-performance lecture "Stage Flop or Spectacular Delight?
Middleton's 'The Witch'" for Mary Baldwin University's Shakespeare and Performance Program, preceding a
performance of Middleton's "The Witch" at the Blackfriars Theater in Staunton, Virginia.

                                                                                                        Page 6 of 8
                                   FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024

Rafe Blaufarb, Ph.D. (Department of History) gave the presentation "The Pamphlet Debate, May 1788-May 1789"
to the Chicago Area French Historians Group in Illinois.

Rafe Blaufarb, Ph.D. (Department of History) gave the virtual presentation "Napoleon: A Political Animal" to the
France Today international forum.

Shi-Ling Hsu, J.D., Ph.D. (College of Law) presented on his book, "Capitalism and the Environment", as part of
Louisiana State University Law's Spring 2024 Faculty Speaker Series.

Shi-Ling Hsu, J.D., Ph.D. (College of Law) planned and presented at the 15th annual meeting of the Society for
Environmental Law and Economics in Tallahassee, which featured about 20 internationally recognized scholars
from around the world.

Amanda Peerce, Joey McGinn and Liz Schumm (University Housing) co-presented "Supervising Neurodiverse
Student Staff: Strategies for Inclusive Leadership" at the Southeastern Association of Housing Officers Conference.

Ben Wicker (University Housing) presented at the Southeastern Association of Housing Officers (SAHO)
Conference.

Brenda Wawire, Ph.D. (Learning Systems Institute) presented and guided the discussion "Reading comprehension
among multilingual learners: impact of intervention and shared classroom practitioner experiences" to the Reading
Comprehension Group.

Kelly Clark (University Housing) served on the presentation panel "Navigating our 'Controversial' Identities on
College Campuses" at the Southeastern Association of Housing Officers Conference.

Chris LaFever, Maria Zareen and Annie Hu (The Career Center) co-presented "Ethical Dilemmas Supporting
Realistic Goals Without Imposing Values on the Client" at the Florida Career Development Association Summit.

JJ Jerez, Jake Bucher and Kelechi Nnaji (The Career Center) co-presented "Bridging Realms: Navigating the
Intersectionality of Career and Mental Health" at the 2024 Florida Career Development Association Summit.

Deb Osborn and Jacob Stamm (The Career Center) co-presented "Decoding the Digital Frontier:
Information/Communication Technology Trends within Career Development Articles (2009-2022)" at the 2024
Florida Career Development Association Summit.

Robyn Brock, Trinity Davis, Zac Collins, Madison Merrill, Riley Curls, Amya Stokes, Ryan Short, Barbora Malichova
and Cassie Hiatt (New Student and Family Programs) co-presented at the Southern Regional Orientation
Workshop.

Terry Londy (College of Fine Arts) presented at the 18th International Conference on Design Principles & Practices
2024 at the Polytechnic University of Valencia in Valencia, Spain from March 11-13.

Nancy Gerber, Ph.D. (College of Fine Arts) led a discussion about her book "Imagination and Arts-Based Practices
for Integration in Research" with the research committee of the European Federation of Art Therapy.

Pat Villeneuve, Ph.D. (College of Fine Arts) had pieces of her artwork juried into an exhibition at the National Quilt
Museum in Paducah, Kentucky. Her deconstructed, two-sided art quilt, "Bauhaus Fringe," will be featured in an
exhibit that will run through the end of July before touring through the end of 2025.

Nancy Gerber, Ph.D. (College of Fine Arts), former FSU faculty Theresa Van Lith and art therapy alum Madeline
Centracchio hosted a virtual summit on teaching research for art therapists and art therapy educators.

Adrienne P. Stephenson, Ph.D. (The Graduate School) co-led the Annual Women and Girls in STEM event hosted
by Tallahassee Community College in collaboration with FSU and FAMU at the FAMU Jake Gaither Gym. The
theme for the event was "Take a Leap: Being Courageous in STEM" and aimed to engage young girls in grades 5-

                                                                                                  Page 7 of 8
                                 FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024

12 with women at various stages of their STEM careers. 179 girls in grades 5-11 from Gadsden, Leon, and Wakulla
counties participated. 28 Women in STEM Professionals from the Tallahassee community served as role
models/mentors during the event including Amy McKenna, Ph.D. (National High Magnetic Field Laboratory), recent
graduate Charlisa Whyms, Ph.D. (Chemistry and Biochemistry) and graduate students Gizem Solmaz-Ratzlaff
(College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences; Learning Systems Institute), Camille Lewis (College of
Education, Health, and Human Sciences), Doreen Addo-Yobo (FSU's Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry),
Monica Paniagua Montoya (Biological Science), and Tania Sultana (Department of Biomedical Sciences). The FSU
Graduate Women in STEM, Arunima Mandal and Grace Westphal, and Saturday at the Sea, Barbara Shoplock
participated in the tabling fair.

Barbara Parker Bell, Ph.D. (College of Fine Arts) gave a talk at the University of Lisbon in Portugal and the
University of &#201;vora, where she delivered a lecture on art therapy for a general audience before offering a
workshop for graduate psychology students studying career development.

Sena Karatas-Ozturk, MA (Learning Systems Institute) had her artwork chosen for display by the Arts-Based
Educational Research Special Interest Group of the American Educational Research Association as Art-Based
Education Research to advocate for equality in education.

Shalay Jackson, Ph.D. (College of Social Work) moderated the panel discussion "Macro Social Work Careers:
Policy and Advocacy" presented by the Special Commission to Advance Macro Social Work.

Adrienne P. Stephenson, Ph.D. (The Graduate School) was elected to serve on the Executive Committee of the
Council of Historically Black Graduate Schools (CHBGS) at the Annual CHBGS Meeting.

Amogh Basavaraj, MA (Learning Systems Institute) chaired "Teacher as a Profession: Measures to Attract and
Retain More Teachers" at the Comparative and International Education Conference in Miami.

Michael K. Brady, Ph.D. (College of Business) will assume the role of board chair of the American Marketing
Association this June.

Eric Liguori, Ph.D. (Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship) was named editor-in-chief of the Journal of Small
Business Management.

Carrie Meyers, Jim Reynolds, Jamie Santillo, Julie Chappell, Zaida McGinley, Sherri Winsett, Robert Hannah,
Bhushan Dahal, and Ninamarie Sapuppo (Learning Systems Institute) conducted a CPALMS workshop with
Florida's educators to develop career and technical education resources for districts, postsecondary technical
colleges, and Florida College System institutions.

Jeffery Milligan, Ph.D., Vilam Fuentes, Ph.D. and Rabieh Razzouk, MBA (Learning Systems Institute) welcomed 18
higher education officials from South Africa as part of the Community College Administrator Program. The CCAP is
a partnership between FSU's Learning Systems Institute, Santa Fe College and the U.S. State Department.

Jeffrey Tatum, Ph.D. (Department of Classics) was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of New Zealand while
serving as the Langford Family Eminent Scholar at FSU.

Fred Abbott, J.D. (College of Law) spoke at a meeting in Botswana, jointly organized by the World Health
Organization and Africa CDC, on the transfer of technology in the pharmaceutical sector.

Yan Li, Ph.D. (FAMU-FSU College of Engineering) was inducted into the 2024 Class of the American Institute for
Medical and Biological Engineering College of Fellows for addressing critical challenges in neurological tissue
regeneration, service to the biomedical profession, and inspiring female and minority students.

Ben Wicker (University Housing) started his position as president of the Southeastern Association of Housing
Officers.

                                                                                                Page 8 of 8
                                FACULTY AND STAFF BRIEFS MARCH 2024

Adrienne P. Stephenson, Ph.D. (The Graduate School) was invited to participate in the Queens Public Library
Women Superstars in STEM virtual panel discussion in celebration of Women's History Month For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com


Load-Date: March 31, 2024


  
