

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 5
                                     TIP SHEET NUMBER 1 JANUARY 12, 2024




                              TIP SHEET NUMBER 1 JANUARY 12, 2024
                                                  States News Service
                                             January 12, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2146 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, DC

Body


The following information was released by the United States Census Bureau:

Census Open Innovation Summit 2024 January 17-19

Summit 2024 will bring together trailblazers in the government innovation space for important discussions about
technology, business investment and entrepreneurship, local government innovation, human-centered data and
more. Each session will include leading data experts and community leaders, showcasing cross-sector
collaboration and federal-community partnership.

Census Scientific Advisory Committee: Call for Nominations

The U.S. Census Bureau is requesting nominations to the Census Scientific Advisory Committee (CSAC) through
the Federal Register Notice (FRN). CSAC provides recommendations on the design, operation and implementation
of Census Bureau programs. New members will serve a 3-year term. Nominations must be submitted through the
FRN by February 2, 2024.

2030 Preparation

Initial Strategies for 2030 Census Preparations

The Census Bureau plans to release five strategy documents outlining how it plans to carry out the next decennial
census. The strategies cover the Census Bureau's approach for conducting a complete count, designing
operations, developing the IT solution, sourcing contracts and engaging with stakeholders for the 2030 Census.
(Tentatively scheduled for release January 31.)

American Community Survey

2018-2022 American Community Survey 5-year Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) and Variance Replicate
Estimates

The 2018-2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-year Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) files and
Variance Replicate Estimate tables are scheduled to be released January 25. The ACS PUMS files enable data

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 5
                                     TIP SHEET NUMBER 1 JANUARY 12, 2024

users to create custom estimates and tables that are not available through pre-tabulated ACS data products. These
statistics are available for the nation, regions, divisions, states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Public Use
Microdata Areas (PUMAs). The Variance Replicate Estimate tables allow advanced data users to calculate margins
of error when collapsing data within a table or across geographies. (Scheduled for release January 25.)

Release of Additional American Community Survey Selected Population Tables and American Indian and Alaska
Native Tables

Additional 2017-2021 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-Year Selected Population Tables (SPT) and American
Indian and Alaska Native Tables (AIANT) are scheduled to be released Thursday, January 25 to address over-
suppression for some groups and geographies within the original June 2023 release. Visit the Race, Ethnicity,
Ancestry and American Indian and Alaska Native Tables page for more information about geographic area/group
combinations that will be receiving additional tabulations. The SPT and AIANT data products contain the greatest
level of statistical detail for detailed race, Hispanic origin, tribal and ancestry group populations. (Scheduled for
release January 25.)

2022 Community Resilience Estimates, New Winter Weather and Flooding Ranking Tables

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2022 Community Resilience Estimates (CRE), and new ranking tables of
U.S. areas most socially vulnerable to winter weather and flooding.

The CRE interactive tool and datasets pages will also be updated with the new 2022 CRE data. Community
resilience is the capacity of individuals and households within a community to absorb the external stresses of a
disaster. The CRE measures the social vulnerability of a community that inhibits community resilience based on 10
topics from the American Community Survey. Topics include poverty status, disability status, age, broadband
internet access, health insurance coverage and more. (Scheduled for release January 30.)

Proposed 2025 American Community Survey and Puerto Rico Community Survey Content Changes

The public comment period through a Federal Register Notice (FRN) on proposed changes to the 2025 American
Community Survey (ACS) and Puerto Rico Community Survey (PRCS) is now closed. The proposed content for the
2025 ACS and PRCS reflects changes to content and instructions that were recommended as a result of the 2022
Content Test. The Census Bureau periodically conducts tests of new and revised survey content to ensure the ACS
and the PRCS meet the data needs of stakeholders. The changes proposed for 2025 cover several topics:
household roster, educational attainment, health insurance coverage, disability, and labor force questions.
Additionally, three new questions are proposed to be added to the ACS and the PRCS on solar panels, electric
vehicles, and sewage disposal. For more information, visit the Content Changes webpage.

Demographic

Household Pulse Survey

The experimental Household Pulse Survey (HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4 topics include employment status, spending, food security, housing, health, mental health, natural
disasters, inflation and spending, vaccine receipt, COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, shortage of critical products,
disability, income, social connection and child care arrangements. Data collection for phase 4.0 began January 9,
with data dissemination, including detailed data tables and public- use files on a monthly basis. (Scheduled for
release February 22, March 21 and April 18.)

Economic

Transitioning multiple annual economic surveys to the new Annual Integrated Economic Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will announce the launch of the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) beginning in
March. This new program replaces seven annual economic surveys, streamlining reporting by consolidating all

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 5
                                    TIP SHEET NUMBER 1 JANUARY 12, 2024

necessary questions into one convenient survey. The AIES will replace the Annual Capital Expenditures Survey
(ACES), Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS), Annual Survey of Manufactures (ASM), Annual Wholesale Trade
Survey (AWTS), Manufacturers' Unfilled Orders Survey (M3UFO), Report of Organization (COS), and the Service
Annual Survey (SAS). Companies selected to participate in the AIES will receive a survey invitation in March of
2024.

The statistics created from that data will provide key measures of economic activity, including the only
comprehensive national and subnational data on business revenues, expenses and assets on an annual basis. For
more information on the AIES, visit census.gov/aies.

2022 Economic Census First Look

The U.S. Census Bureau will release first look estimates from the 2022 Economic Census. The economic census is
the U.S. government's official five-year measure of businesses in the United States. It provides the most
comprehensive business and economic data available at the national, state and local levels and serves as the
benchmark for current economic activity, such as the Gross Domestic Product and Producer Price Index.
(Scheduled for release January 25.)

First-Look 2023 Annual Business Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release an infographic and preliminary data from the Annual Business Surveys (ABS),
covering data year 2022. The infographic will show the profitability of employer businesses by race. The preliminary
data show the financing practices for employer firms by sex, ethnicity, race, minority and veteran status. Data in the
infographic and tables are shown for the percentage of employer businesses in 2022. The ABS is conducted jointly
by the U.S. Census Bureau and the National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics (NCSES) within the
National Science Foundation. (Tentatively scheduled for release January 25.)

2022 Annual Wholesale Trade Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release data tables from the 2022 Annual Wholesale Trade Survey (AWTS). This
survey produces national estimates of total annual sales, e-commerce sales, end-of-year inventories, purchases,
operating expenses, gross margins and commissions for wholesale businesses located in the United States. The
AWTS provides statistics for merchant wholesalers of durable and nondurable goods; manufacturers' sales
branches and offices; and wholesale electronic markets, agents and brokers. (Tentatively scheduled for release
January 29.)

2022 Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS)

The U.S. Census Bureau will release data tables from the 2022 Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS). This survey
produces national estimates of total annual sales, e-commerce sales, end-of-year inventories, purchases, total
operating expenses and gross margins for retail businesses located in the United States. The data are published on
a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) basis and the estimates are used to benchmark the
monthly retail sales and inventories estimates each spring. (Tentatively scheduled for release on January 29.)

2022 Service Annual Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new data tables from the 2022 Service Annual Survey (SAS). The SAS
provides statistics on revenue, payroll, sources of revenue, expenses, exports, inventory, revenue from electronic
sources and other selected industry-specific data for service industries. The data are accompanied by supporting
materials, including a data visualization that provides revenue statistics for all sectors covered by the SAS.
(Scheduled for release January 30.)

New Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics Data

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2020 Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics (NES-D). Included within
this release are demographic data by urban and rural classification, receipt size of firm, and legal form of

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 5
                                     TIP SHEET NUMBER 1 JANUARY 12, 2024

organization plus characteristics of nonemployer business owners. The NES-D is an annual statistical series that
uses existing administrative records and census data to link demographic characteristics to the universe of
nonemployer businesses. (Scheduled for release February 8.)

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release data from the 2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES)
highlighting the industries with the largest total capital expenditures for structures and equipment for companies
with employees in 2022. Data are based on the 2022 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The
ACES provides the only comprehensive estimates of annual U.S. capital expenditures data covering all domestic
nonfarm businesses and detailing investments by type and industry. (Tentatively scheduled for release on February
28.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. Beginning in
September 2023, the BTOS made several changes regarding data collection and data products. BTOS
experimental data products are now representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding
farms. New questions were added to the BTOS questionnaire that address the following topics: artificial
intelligence, inventories, interest rates and severe weather events. Data are now available by additional
employment size classes: 1-4 employees, 5-9 employees, 10-19 employees, 20-49 employees, 50-99 employees,
100-249 employees and 250 or more employees. The data allow greater insight into the state of the economy by
providing continuous, timely information for key economic measures. Data are released biweekly and are available
by sector, state and the 25 most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Because of the change in sample
composition, BTOS data from before September 11, 2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional and national levels and by industry sector
at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released February 14 and include January 2024 data. Business
Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (census.gov).

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting U.S. Census Bureau statistics that relate to current
events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining
and producing content for their respective audiences.

Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: January 15, 2024

National Popcorn Day: January 19, 2024

National Spouses Day: January 26, 2024

American Heart Month: February 2024

Groundhog Day: February 2, 2024

National Women Physician Day: February 3, 2024

Grammy Awards: February 4, 2024

Mail Carrier Day: February 4, 2024

National Weatherperson's Day: February 5, 2024

                                                                           Page 5 of 5
                                     TIP SHEET NUMBER 1 JANUARY 12, 2024

Lunar New Year: February 10, 2024

Inventors' Day: February 11, 2024

Super Bowl LVIII: February 11, 2024

Mardi Gras: February 13, 2024

Oregon 165th Anniversary of Statehood (1859): February 14, 2024

Valentine's Day: February 14, 2024

Singles Awareness Day: February 15, 2024

Presidents' Day: February 19, 2024


Load-Date: January 13, 2024


  
