

                                                                                             Page 1 of 7
  Connolly Announces Inclusion of Community Project Funding Requests in House-Passed FY24 Appropriations
                                                 Package




 Connolly Announces Inclusion of Community Project Funding Requests in
              House-Passed FY24 Appropriations Package
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          March 6, 2024 Wednesday 11:47 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3851 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


Rep. Gerald "Gerry" Connolly, D-Virginia, issued the following news:

Today, Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), the Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Cybersecurity,
Information Technology, and Government Innovation, announced that the House adopted fourteen of his
Community Project Funding (CPF) requests in the first of two FY24 appropriations packages. The funding package
passed the House 339-85.

"I am proud to have secured more than $12 million for projects across Fairfax County," said Connolly. "This funding
will go toward increased support for our most vulnerable neighbors through a new domestic violence shelter in
Fairfax and modernization of the Capital Area Food Bank in Lorton, road and infrastructure improvements like a
potential backup drinking water source for the DC region, and important public safety efforts. I look forward to
seeing these federal dollars put to good use for the betterment of all of us who call Fairfax County home."

The following Community Project Funding requests from Congressman Connolly, totaling $12,308,279, were
included in the first FY24 appropriations package:

Social Support:

Project: Fairfax Family and Domestic Violence Shelter

Recipient: Fairfax County Government

Amount: $4,116,279

Background: Currently, Fairfax County's family and domestic violence facilities are beyond their useful lives. In the
case of the domestic violence shelter, the current physical location also presents unique security challenges for the

                                                                                             Page 2 of 7
  Connolly Announces Inclusion of Community Project Funding Requests in House-Passed FY24 Appropriations
                                                 Package

residents and staff. Rather than construct entirely new facilities, the Fairfax County Redevelopment and Housing
Authority (FCRHA) has identified an existing "extended stay" style hotel, which it intends to purchase and convert
for use as a secure domestic violence shelter and a family shelter. This will entail combining rooms, creating service
and office space, and other changes to the existing hotel setup. The project will help establish a modern, safe family
and domestic violence shelter in an easy-to-reach, opportunity-rich area next to a police station that will give
residents the ability to access transit, services, and employment as they and their families begin to rebuild their
lives. This request is an important part of the overall project cost, as this project will have a huge impact on the
approximately 50 families that will use the facility on a daily basis. This project represents an opportunity to deliver
this essential, brand new facility years earlier than might otherwise be accomplished.

Project: Capital Area Food Bank's Lorton, VA Facility Reconstruction

Recipient: Capital Area Food Bank

Amount: $1,000,000

Background: The Capital Area Food Bank (CAFB) is critical to Northern Virginia's hunger relief infrastructure. The
food bank's warehouse in Lorton, Virginia is the vital food distribution hub for a network of 165 nonprofit partners
and 158,000 food insecure individuals. However, the warehouse desperately requires modernization to keep up
with the demand of the region. Therefore, the food bank is engaging in a reconstruction of the facility. The current
Lorton facility was built in 1982 by Frito Lay. At just 12,000 square feet, the warehouse was never retrofitted to meet
the food bank's operational needs following acquisition in 1998, with severely inadequate pallet storage and truck
bays. There is no volunteer space, and the building is not ADA accessible. Further, to meet the continued
heightened community need, the food bank is renting a second temporary facility in Virginia. Given these
inadequacies, the food bank is reconstructing a modernized facility. CAFB is demolishing the current facility in April
2023, breaking ground in May 2023, and plan for project completion by late summer 2024. A feasibility study
determined that demolishing and rebuilding on the current plot of land is the most cost-efficient and effective path
forward as the food bank owns the land and it is within 10 miles of over 75 percent of our partner organizations.
CAFB has obtained proper permitting for demolition and reconstruction, and operations out of the Lorton facility
have fully shifted to the secondary, temporary Virginia facility as of April 2022. Service to the community will remain
fully functional out of this temporary facility until completion of the reconstruction. The new facility will have 42,000
square feet of warehouse space, in addition to 3,000 square feet of newly dedicated volunteer space. The new
facility will have nearly eight times the amount of pallet racks (1,700), and four times the amount of truck bays (8)
than the current facility. The facility will meet LEED Silver designation and ADA accessibility guidelines. This project
will allow the food bank to deliver 300 percent more food to Northern Virginia partners and clients.

Infrastructure:

Project: Fox Mill Road and Pinecrest Road Intersection Improvements

Recipient: Fairfax County Government

Amount: $850,000

Background: The purpose of this project is to improve traffic operations and pedestrian safety at the intersection of
Fox Mill Road and Pinecrest Road. The Fox Mill Road and Pinecrest Road intersection is a four-way intersection
with two-way stops on the Pinecrest Road eastbound and westbound approaches. The intersection currently
experiences significant delays during peak periods of the day and is approached from the west over a significant
hill. In addition, there are limited pedestrian facilities. These characteristics have resulted in unsafe conditions and
many traffic incidents over the past several years. The Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT) has
conducted a signal warrant study, which determined that a signal is necessary at the intersection. As a result, a
temporary traffic signal was installed in 2021. The project also includes pedestrian improvements at the
intersection, including crosswalks on all four legs and accessible curb ramps. The project will improve safety at the
intersection of Fox Mill Road and Pinecrest Road, mitigate congestion in the area of Fox Mill Road and Pinecrest

                                                                                             Page 3 of 7
  Connolly Announces Inclusion of Community Project Funding Requests in House-Passed FY24 Appropriations
                                                 Package

Road, and improve pedestrian and bicycle facilities in the area, including by providing pedestrian and bicycle
access to the nearby Reston South Park and Ride Lot.

Project: Silverbrook Road and Lorton Road Intersection

Recipient: Fairfax County Government

Amount: $850,000

Background: The intersection of Lorton Road with Silverbrook Road/Sanger Street supports significant turning
volumes to and from the residential communities north of Lorton Road, the I-95 Interchange, and the Richmond
Highway corridor. The significant turning volumes at Silverbrook Road, paired with the recurring congestion along
the corridor, has resulted in operational challenges at the intersection. The intersection modifications will improve
operations of right-turns from westbound Lorton Road onto northbound Silverbrook Road, and the left-turn from
southbound Silverbrook Road onto eastbound Lorton Road. Lorton Road connects Route 123, I-95, and Richmond
Highway (Route 1), three regionally significant north-south corridors. This project will help mitigate congestion at
this intersection and its roadways, improving mobility in this corridor. The high volume of traffic traveling through the
intersection contributes to an average of seven crashes per year, with nearly half of the crashes resulting from rear
end collisions. These improvements will help increase safety at this intersection. The project will also include bicycle
and pedestrian facilities, which will improve mobility and accessibility for those living in, and traveling through, this
area.

Project: Route 28, Route 29, and Stone Road Trail

Recipient: Fairfax County Government

Amount: $500,000

Background: This project includes the construction of a trail from the I-66 interchange to an existing trail running
along southbound Route 28, upgrading 800 feet of existing sidewalk to a shared use path (SUP) on the north side
of westbound Route 29. It will also replace an existing sidewalk along the north side of Route 29. The I-66 corridor
is an economically important area that is routinely congested. The Commonwealth of Virginia is currently
undertaking the Transform 66 Outside the Beltway project, which will transform Northern Virginia's Interstate 66 into
a multimodal corridor that moves more people, provides reliable trips, and offers new travel options. A component
of this corridor in Fairfax County is this trail, which will provide more than 11 miles of connectivity from Gallows
Road, Dunn Loring (just outside the Beltway) to Centreville. This project connects to some of the area's major
regional trails, such as the W&OD Trail via Gallows Road, and provides improved mobility and travel choices. The
project will enhance pedestrian and bicycle safety, accessibility, and connectivity in the local pedestrian network.

Project: Fairfax County Trenchless Sewer Rehabilitation

Recipient: Fairfax County Government

Amount: $850,000

Background: This project will support Fairfax County's trenchless sewer rehabilitation program of publicly owned
sewer pipes and will allow for an additional 11 miles of aging infrastructure renewal. Fairfax County currently
rehabilitates on average 20 miles annually out of 3,400 miles of total pipe. This funding will increase the rate at
which aging sewer pipes can be rehabilitated by an additional 50 percent. Trenchless relining requires no digging
and is completed for each pipe segment in one day. Trenchless relining reduces infiltration and inflow of water into
the sewer, and reduces sewage from overflowing into the environment, protecting water quality and public health.
Many of Fairfax County's sewer pipes were constructed between 1960 to 1990, in 50 miles sections. Many of the
older sewer lines in the system are reaching the end of their life cycle and either need to be replaced or
rehabilitated. Additional funding will accelerate the asset renewal rate for aging sanitary sewers. Rehabilitating
sanitary sewer lines before they fail ensures uninterrupted service to the community and prevents sanitary sewer

                                                                                             Page 4 of 7
  Connolly Announces Inclusion of Community Project Funding Requests in House-Passed FY24 Appropriations
                                                 Package

overflows, which would negatively impact the environment. Trenchless rehabilitation technology extends the life of
assets by 50 years or longer. Lining sewer pipes is much less expensive than excavating and replacing failing
pipes, and the rehabilitation of the system is achieved with minimal disturbance to the community and surrounding
environment.

Project: Town of Herndon, Virginia - Widen East Spring Street

Recipient: The Town of Herndon, Virginia

Amount: $1,000,000

Background: This project is located within the Town of Herndon - Fairfax County, Virginia at the Spring
Street/Herndon Parkway intersection and extends to the town limits at Fairfax County Parkway. The project scope
is to widen and reconstruct Spring Street from four to six lanes between Herndon Parkway and Fairfax County
Parkway; channel traffic with raised median, through lanes and dedicated turning lanes between Fairfax County
Parkway and Herndon Parkway; add turning lanes on approaches to the intersection of Herndon Parkway and
Spring Street; and include ADA sidewalk improvements and adds 2-way cycle track from W&OD Regional Trail to
connect to Herndon Metrorail. The project is a multimodal design providing enhanced safety countermeasures,
active transportation facilities and congestion relief near the town's transit-oriented development zone and the
Herndon Metro Station. The project responds to significant annual crash data by closing the median along Spring
Street and will include new traffic signalization and accessible audio pedestrian/bike signal controls. In addition, the
eastern terminus of this project abuts the Fairfax County Parkway and will address multi-jurisdictional congestion
concerns. The project will help reduce traffic congestion, facilitate vehicular access to and from the Fairfax County
Parkway, and increase the efficiency of the intersection of Spring Street and Herndon Parkway.

Project: W&OD Trail & Town of Vienna Initiative

Recipient: Town of Vienna

Amount: $1,000,000

Background: This project is a collaboration with NOVA Parks to revise and improve assets along the W&OD Trail
(within the Town's boundaries). The Town of Vienna is located at approximately the mid-point of the 45-mile W&OD
Trail. This trail is one of the most popular rails-to-trails in the nation, with two to three million users per year. More
specifically, this project would support the acquisition of property to build a welcome center, potentially expand the
Town Green, and make improvements for the development of a safe dual trail network for bicyclists and
pedestrians. The visitor center will provide restrooms, bike rentals, and food for trail users; serve as a platform for
activities and events; and provide information about Vienna, other regional parks and more. The goal of creating a
W&OD visitor center is part of the NOVA Parks 2023-2027 Strategic Plan. The project goal is to create a vibrant
destination that supports the Town's economic development goals while providing a safe space for bicyclists and
pedestrians to use the trail network which goes through the Town's commercial core and connects to other
jurisdictions and commercial centers in the region.

Project: Washington Region Secondary Water Source Feasibility Study

Recipient: Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments

Amount: $500,000

Background: Pursuant to the Water Resources Development Act of 2022, which was signed into law on December
23, 2022, this project would fund a feasibility study conducted by the United States Army Corps of Engineers on a
secondary drinking water source and additional drinking water storage capability for the region. The Potomac River
is the metropolitan Washington region's primary source for drinking water, the only major metropolitan area of the
country to have no redundancy built into its water supply. If there were an accidental chemical spill upstream, a
natural disaster, severe drought, or a deliberate attack on the region's water infrastructure, there is no backup

                                                                                             Page 5 of 7
  Connolly Announces Inclusion of Community Project Funding Requests in House-Passed FY24 Appropriations
                                                 Package

source for water storage or supply. A total loss of Potomac River water supply would lead to all of D.C. and
Arlington losing water within 24 hours and much of Fairfax, VA and suburban Maryland losing water within days.
The full impact of a water supply shortage is not fully known, but the potential for a humanitarian and economic
crisis should not be underestimated. Recognizing its critical importance, Congress entrusted provision of water to
our nation's capital to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers which owns and operates the Washington Aqueduct. Due
to the impact to all the numerous federal agencies residing in and around the nation's capital, resiliency of the water
supply for the region requires action from the federal government in collaboration with the regional water utilities, as
well as state and local partners, by working together to address this potentially devastating, but avoidable water
supply challenge.

Public Safety:

Project: Enhancing Safety and Security at Northern Virginia Airports and Associated Metro Stations

Recipient: George Mason University

Amount: $296,000

Background: Through this project George Mason University's Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy (CEBCP)
will develop evidence-based prevention measures at Reagan and Dulles airport metro stations to increase safety at
both those stations and their connected airports. The CEBCP will use its expertise to understand the nature of
crime and disorder problems at entry points to the airport (like associated Metro stations) and how those points of
entry can be best secured, while at the same time improving customer satisfaction, confidence, and security when
using these transportation hubs. The safety of the airports and Metro system is a top priority for residents, visitors,
customers, and employees of Northern Virginia. This collaboration would contribute to improving crime prevention
and ridership confidence in the Metro and at the airports. Millions of domestic and international visitors use these
transportation systems for civic, business, residential, and tourism activities that are central to Northern Virginia's
communities. It is vital to the economic well-being of Northern Virginia that visitors, employees, and community
members feel confident, safe, and satisfied when using Dulles International and Reagan National Airports. There
remains little knowledge and evaluation of combined airport and public transit security measures to mitigate security
risks at those locations. For these reasons, the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority Police Department
(MWAA PD) has entered into a cooperative agreement with the WMATA Metro Transit Police Department (MTPD)
to apply prevention measures at airport Metro stations to increase safety at both those stations and their connected
airports. The MWAA PD has asked the CEBCP to help evaluate, assess, and improve these security measures
using evidence-based approaches and knowledge. The CEBCP's evaluation would provide a critical service to
Metro riders and customers of Dulles and Reagan National and the Washington Metro system by providing an
analysis for MWAA PD to understand and assess the impacts of their work on public safety and ridership
confidence in Northern Virginia. An evidence-based approach can also sharpen the cost-benefits of police activity
by optimizing resource utilization.

Project: Enhancing Emergency Communications Resiliency and Effectiveness Through AI

Recipient: George Mason University

Amount: $961,000

Background: This project will enable George Mason University to work with local first responders to improve
emergency communications using artificial intelligence (AI). The potential benefits of this work will include: 1) 9-1-
1 calls can be directed more effectively using AI-enabled apps, which should both reduce response times and
lighten the workload on 9-1-1 call centers in ways that can scale and be available 24/7. Moreover, these
approaches can be used to consolidate the information and categorize it to improve decision support for public
safety officials and first responders. The calls can be tailored to the 11th District's major languages and anonymized
as needed. 2) Public feedback can be gathered in near-real time by using these same approaches. This could help
first responders see what's happening sooner (Like flagging multiple co-located reports of "My street is flooding!")

                                                                                             Page 6 of 7
  Connolly Announces Inclusion of Community Project Funding Requests in House-Passed FY24 Appropriations
                                                 Package

and understand public sentiment while the disruption is occurring, rather than waiting for post-event surveys. 3) The
project will work with local IT personnel and emergency managers to use AI to help them implement comprehensive
guidance on cyber resiliency like that issued by the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) and
adapt the guidance to their circumstances. This could reduce the likelihood of IT disruptions in emergencies. The
project will reduce response times in emergencies by enhancing situational awareness for public safety officials,
lightening the load on 9-1-1 call center operators, improving stakeholder engagement, and reducing the likelihood of
IT disruptions during emergencies. The project includes three parts: (1) coordinating available data to support
decisions better during emergencies and disasters, (2) integrating public feedback in near-real-time, and (3)
improving cyber resiliency. The project will result in significantly more effective emergency management and public
safety functions, as well as the increased resiliency of the underlying IT infrastructure.

Project: Night Vision Thermal Enhancement Technology Modernization

Recipient: Fairfax County Government

Amount: $250,000

Background: The Fairfax County Police Department (FCPD) will use this funding to purchase new Night Vision
Thermal Enhancement technology for the SWAT and Canine Sections of the Office of Special Operations Division
(SOD). The FCPD SWAT team is the only Tier 1 level tactical team in the Northern Virginia region, as well as the
only full-time standing unit in Northern Virginia. The Canine Section is made up of 15 pairs who are deployed 24/7
and serve as field consultants for SOD when needed. This technology will enhance the ability of both the SWAT
Team and Canine Section to apprehend violent, armed individuals. Utilizing Night Vision Thermal Enhancement
Technology lessens the likelihood of needing to use force to apprehend a suspect, increasing safety for officers,
suspects, and the surrounding community while ensuring public safety. It will also enhance safety in the field for
officers working with large groups through "tagging" technology to locate other team members, providing a safer,
more efficient response.

Project: Cyber and Forensics Division Equipment Upgrades

Recipient: Fairfax County Government

Amount: $135,000

Background: This project will update and replace equipment used by the Fairfax County Police Department (FCPD)
in the investigation of crimes. This includes the upgrade of aging forensic equipment, the procurement of advanced
technology to reduce time spent on the processing of crime scenes, and the replacement of non-functional
computer equipment in a mobile surveillance vehicle. These items will increase efficiency and accuracy of
investigations and allow investigators more time to focus on other aspects of a wide range of investigations,
including opioid trafficking, sexual assaults, human trafficking, and threats of violence in the community.
Specifically, the funding request is for the following: Advanced scanning technology to allow for increased efficiency
and accuracy of crime scene documentation. These are laser systems used to make 3D maps of crime scenes.
These newer handheld units can be deployed into smaller, more cluttered spaces, allowing for better modeling than
the current tripod models. Replacement of a non-functional mobile surveillance platform, which has been rendered
unusable due to the failure of the computers in the surveillance van. A replacement on-board server and new
cameras will revitalize a very valuable tool in the fight against crime, furthering investigations into opioid and
narcotics trafficking, terrorist plots, and other threats. Upgrades to evidence analysis equipment (fuming chambers).
The current fuming chambers are still functional but are starting to require costly repairs to remain in service.
Advances in technology have now made available higher quality, more efficient instruments that could improve
officers' ability to process latent evidence. Replacement of old fuming chambers should improve both accuracy and
the quality of analysis on recovered latent evidence. Updating the equipment used to preserve evidence, as the old
equipment is near its end of life (drying cabinets). Upgrading and improving the drying area/equipment will allow for
better preservation of biological evidence and latent DNA. This is especially important in investigations of violent
crimes against persons.

                                                                                             Page 7 of 7
  Connolly Announces Inclusion of Community Project Funding Requests in House-Passed FY24 Appropriations
                                                 Package

***

Original text here: https://connolly.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=4947

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8516402 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 7, 2024


  
