

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 8
                     REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024




   REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024
                                                 States News Service
                                               March 11, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2318 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the office of Wyoming Rep. Harriet Hageman:

Hello Tyler,

Happy belated 307 Day! It is an honor to serve as your lone representative in the U.S. House, and

I am thankful for the privilege to be a voice for you in our federal government. We are blessed to call

the Cowboy State home, and I look forward to more travel from county to county over the next

several months.

Please enjoy this week's edition of the Wyoming Round-Up, and encourage your friends and family

to subscribe via this link as well!

Why I Voted Against the FY 2024 Budget

Last week, I voted against passing the 4th continuing resolution (CR) for Fiscal Year 2024 due to its

failure to make meaningful cuts to the Democrats' out of control spending spree, and this week I

voted against our first appropriations "minibus" for that same reason. This disastrous bill actually

INCREASES government spending levels. It fails to address the legitimate financial, policy, and

constitutional challenges our nation is facing, such as the collusion between Big Tech and our

federal agencies as they attempt to further the Censorship Industrial Complex, the invasion of

illegals at our borders, the woke ideology that has become embedded in the bureaucracy, and an

energy policy designed to further government-imposed wretchedness.

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 8
                    REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024

It also fails to deliver for Wyoming: it excludes our efforts to delist the Greater Yellowstone

Ecosystem Grizzly, blocks our push to defund the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA)

Electronic Identification (EID) eartag mandate (discussed more below), and strips out our language

to defund the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) from implementing its Rock Springs RMP.

In essence, this minibus not only abandons House Republicans' pledge to pass individual

appropriations bills and return to regular order, but it continues to grow our national debt even as it

approaches $35 trillion. Our nation cannot survive this fiscal mismanagement much longer, and if

our second FY 2024 funding bill is similar to this one, I will vote against it as well.

Some issues are too important not to fight for, and trying to control the further growth of our obscene

national debt is one of those issues.

Committee Updates

What a week it has been! In my Natural Resources Committee, I participated in 4 hearings in just

two days. As chair of the Indian and Insular Affairs Subcommittee, I led a hearing with federal

officials and tribal leaders from across the nation to look at how we can increase tribal sovereignty

and autonomy through reforms to the Bureau of Indian Affairs' self-governance compacts and

contracts. In our Water, Wildlife, and Fisheries Subcommittee we held our first hearing on Chairman

Westerman's America's Wildlife Habitat Conservation Act, which I discussed last week if you

missed my remarks, click here to read them (hint: it is time to reform the Endangered Species Act).

I was also allowed to join the Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee to discuss one of my

latest bills, H.R. 7375, which adjusts the way in which the BLM assesses expression of interest

(EOI) fees on legacy energy companies, extends an EOI's validity from 3 to 5 years, and ensures

that companies don't have to pay EOI fees until a lease is actually put up for sale. I also waived onto

the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee's hearing on Natural Asset Companies (NAC) to

expose the breadth and scope of the disaster that NACs would cause our country. I have reported

about NACs in previous newsletters, describing all of the ways in which they would be used to

prevent us from using our land and water to further the interests of the United States the three

experts who testified in our subcommittee last Thursday confirmed our greatest concerns.

Over in the House Judiciary Committee, I attended a hearing of the Select Subcommittee on the

Weaponization of the Federal Government, during which the Republicans sought to investigate and

expose the Biden administration's threat to our First, Second, Fourth and Fifth Amendment rights by

                                                                                                           Page 3 of 8
                    REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024

their continued efforts to use technology and third parties to access and spy on U.S. citizens'

financial and other banking records -- frightening tactics that will only worsen with such things as the

rise of artificial intelligence programs. As one witness said, any information a bank has about your

purchases, hobbies, activities, or life, Big Government can access and is in fact doing so. The

Biden administration has clearly failed to respect those natural rights as guaranteed by our Creator,

being relentless as they seek to use the federal government to go after their political and

philosophical enemies. It is up to Congress to protect Americans' fundamental rights with legislation

such as my Censorship Accountability Act.

The Real State of the Union

Joe Biden's dementia was on full display during Thursday's State of the Union speech as he

claimed time and time again that our nation is on strong, firm footing under his leadership. Clearly

he has either forgotten (a real possibility) or chooses to ignore how the last three years have been a

complete and utter disaster. Our nation has suffered over 18% inflation, crippling energy prices (and

a whole of government effort to destroy reliable and affordable domestic energy), a targeted

weaponization of numerous federal agencies (EPA, FBI, DOJ, DHS, CDC, etc.) against the people

they are supposed to serve, and an invasion of over 10 million illegal aliens (including terrorists)

flooding our borders, wreaking havoc from north to south and east to west. What's more, this week

we exposed how the Biden Administration is not only failing to secure the border, but is actively

spending taxpayer dollars to fly illegal aliens into the United States from Latin America; to date, over

320,000 illegal aliens have been flown to 43 American cities by the U.S. Customs and Border

Patrol.

Our nation is weaker because of his lack of leadership and has lost not only its moral compass

internally, but its moral standing globally. What a shocking contrast to how strong our nation was

when President Trump left office! The dawn of better days for America begins with the sunset of the

Biden presidency.

Continuing the Fight Against EID Eartag Mandates

This week I participated in a hearing before the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA)

and filed a comprehensive letter with its leadership to continue fighting against the USDA's EID

mandate. For well over a decade, the USDA has tried to chip and trace our livestock to further

vertically integrate our food supply chain and enact radical climate policy. I have been fighting these

                                                                                                            Page 4 of 8
                    REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024

efforts for five years, and will continue to do so until USDA finally returns to common sense.

In our hearing and follow-up letter, I laid out how this mandate is not only unnecessary but

dangerous to our nation's food security, threatens the livelihood and privacy of our beef producers,

and will cost millions of dollars to implement, with much of that cost forced onto our independent

and smaller livestock producers who already live on tight profit margins. It's my hope that my

testimony and the documents we filed will help OIRA to recognize that USDA failed and refused to

follow administrative law when it adopted the rule, that such rule is entirely unnecessary, and that it

must issue an order blocking the Agency from implementing it.

If the rule is ultimately enacted, we have still been able to lay the foundation in the record for groups

to file lawsuits challenging it. We need to take advantage of every tool that we have to push back

against the unelected bureaucrats who seek to control every aspect of our lives!

Slam the Scam! Protect yourself from government imposters

As part of Consumer Protection Week, the Social Security Administration has offered some tips on

how to identify and protect yourself from scammers impersonating Social Security or other

government officials:

Scammers pretend to be from an agency or organization you know to gain your trust.

Scammers say there is a problem or a prize.

Scammers pressure you to act immediately.

Scammers tell you to pay in a specific way.

Remind your clients, friends, and family to:

Hang up on suspicious calls from government officials calling about a problem with your

Social Security number or account.

NEVER make payments with gift cards, wire transfers, or by mailing cash.

Report Social Security scams to OIG.SSA.GOV.

Report other scams to reportfraud.ftc.gov.

New Town Halls Announced!

I am continuing to keep my promise to host a town hall in every county, every year, and I'm proud to

announce the next 3 town halls in northern Wyoming at the end of March! I hope you will be able to

attend, but if you don't live nearby, don't worry I'll be holding a town hall closes to you soon.

Johnson County Town Hall:

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 8
                    REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024

Tue, March 26, 2024 5:30 to 6:30 PM

Bomber Mountain Civic Center, Small Gym

63 N Burritt Ave, Buffalo WY

Big Horn County Town Hall:

Wed, March 27, 2024 6:00 to 7:00 PM

Greybull Recreation District

527 1st Ave South, Greybull WY

Park County Town Hall:

Thu, March 28, 2024 7:00 to 8:00 AM

The Commons

135 N Bent St, Powell WY

See What I'm Doing in D.C.! Add Me on Social Media:

Events and Announcements

Traveling for Spring Break? Here are some tips

As international travel starts to pick up for the next few months, here are some travel tips from the

State Department to ensure your plans aren't derailed. Current wait times to obtain or renew a

passport are 6-8 weeks for routine requests or 2-3 weeks for expedited processing, not including

shipping times. Please contact my office if you need assistance in getting a passport via this link!

Make sure your passport is valid for 6 months past the end date of your trip, and look up your

destination's laws, customs, and entry requirements at travel.state.gov/destination.

Double check your luggage to ensure no loose ammunition, weapons, or medication are

present.

Review your health insurance coverage to make sure you are covered overseas, or purchase

travel insurance.

Save the contact info for the nearest US embassy or consulate, and enroll in the Smart

Traveler Enrollment Program at step.state.gov.

Wyoming Wednesdays Are Back!

Don't miss out on a chance to meet with your Wyoming Congressional Delegation every

Wednesday morning from 9AM - 10AM in the Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room 366. For a list

of all upcoming Wyoming Wednesdays, please visit my events page. To schedule a meeting with my

                                                                                                       Page 6 of 8
                    REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024

staff, please email Marjorie.Daily@mail.house.gov

Upcoming Congress in Your Communities

Each week that I am in session in DC, my staff members have been traveling to communities across

Wyoming to meet with my constituents in order to hear their concerns and assist them with issues

they are facing with federal agencies. Sign up for an appointment to meet with my staff here or call

307-261-6595 to schedule an appointment. Exact addresses for Congress in Your Community

locations will be provided once meeting times are confirmed.

Congress in Crook County:

Thu, March 14, 2024 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM

Sundance, WY

Congress in Fremont County:

Wed, March 20, 2024 11:00 AM to 5:00 PM

Riverton, WY

Congress in Teton County:

Tue, April 30, 2024 7:00 AM to 3:00 PM

Wilson, WY

Congress in Weston County:

Thu, May 9, 2024 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM

Upton, WY

Recent Photos

We had so many wonderful meetings this week,

including this visit from Nylah Marks,

Wyoming's Junior Ambassador for the Tourette

Association of America.

Thank you to all who attended this week's

Wyoming Wednesday! This was our largest

meet-and-greet of the year, and I can't wait for

our next one!

Recent Votes

For my full voting record, click here. for information on each bill, click on the bill number below.

                                                                                                   Page 7 of 8
                    REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024

Voted YES on H.R. 3391, the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act 2.0.

Voted YES on H.R. 3838, the Preventing Maternal Deaths Reauthorization Act.

Voted NO on H.Res. 1061, the Consolidated Appropriations Act minibus.

Voted YES on H.R. 3821, the Firefighter Cancer Registry Reauthorization Act.

Voted YES on H.R. 7511, the Laken Riley Act.

Voted YES on H.R. 3843, the Action for Dental Health Act.

Voted YES on H.R. 2799, the Expanding Access to Capital Act.

Cosponsored Legislation

Here are some highlights of bills I'm cosponsoring:

H.R. 7511, the Laken Riley Act, which requires illegal aliens charged with theft to be arrested.

H.R. 7494, the Protect America's Lands Act, which blocks the listing of natural asset

companies on a securities or stock exchange.

H.R. 7455, the Sunset Act, which will ensure that all agency-created rules expire after 10

years, unless extended for another 10 years by Congress.

H.R. 7408, the America's Wildlife Habitat Conservation Act, which makes much-needed

reforms to the Endangered Species Act and empowers state species management.

Tweet of the Week

Video of the Week

Remembering Pat O'Toole, a true friend and defender of Wyoming

In the News

Lying, deception, and corruption run in the

Biden Crime Family. They have abused and

disgraced the Office of the President and must

be held accountable.

Senate Democrats continue to weaponize

legislation to achieve their leftist goals. Check

out my newest op-ed discussing their latest

legislative malpractice efforts.

I'm so thankful for the engaged, informed

citizens in the Cowboy State! It is always a

                                                                                                          Page 8 of 8
                    REP. HARRIET HAGEMAN: THE WYOMING ROUND-UP | MARCH 10, 2024

highlight of my time back home when I can

update you on everything happening in

Congress.

I will never stop fighting to protect our natural

rights. We must remain vigilant against attempts

to confiscate our land and force radical green

bad deal ideology onto our nation.

I Want to Hear From You!

I cannot do my job without your support and input. Thank you for the calls, letters, emails, and

questions you have sent to our offices. Please continue to reach out via the contact information

below, and stay up to date on all the latest activities and legislation by subscribing and sharing this

newsletter and our Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube accounts with your friends and

family!

Sincerely,

Rep. Harriet Hageman

Member of Congress


Load-Date: March 19, 2024


  
