

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                        NICE Expands Its Presence in Japan With Availability of CXone in Osaka




   NICE Expands Its Presence in Japan With Availability of CXone in Osaka
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              March 8, 2024 Friday 8:10 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 901 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: HOBOKEN, New Jersey

Body


NICE, an enterprise software solutions provider, issued the following news release on March 7, 2024:

NICE (Nasdaq: NICE) today announced that it has launched a second CXone Cloud Region in Japan. This
presents a unique and critical functionality tailored specifically for the Japanese market. NICE will provide a
business continuity (BCP) service for CXone in Osaka, enhancing the overall resilience of CXone cloud
infrastructure for Japanese customers. Osaka's robust infrastructure and connectivity made it a strategic choice for
hosting BCP cloud services, providing reliable and high-performance solutions for NICE customer business needs.

There is increased demand in Japan for reliable and secure cloud services. Many organizations in Japan have strict
requirements to ensure business stability during unexpected outages. The new Osaka business continuity offering
is designed to enable CXone customers in Japan to be able to operate contact center services within Japan
observing regulatory requirements, in the event of a natural disaster. With this new BCP service, NICE customers
in the region can deliver exceptional Enlighten-powered CX without interruption and while keeping their data
protected.

Darren Rushworth, President, NICE International, said, "This investment demonstrates NICE's commitment to
better serve its Japanese customers. NICE understands the unique challenges in the region when it comes to
natural disasters. This enhances the overall resilience of the CXone cloud infrastructure, ensuring business
continuity for customers in the face of unforeseen events like earthquakes and typhoons. NICE intends to continue
to invest in Japan to optimize service in the market."

Mary Wardley, VP Customer Service and Contact Center Applications, IDC, said, "The challenge of delivering
global solutions is providing for the requirements of each geography. NICE's continued investment in Japan
represents the company's focus on delivering consistent and secure CX AI technology to its customers in the
region."

***

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                     NICE Expands Its Presence in Japan With Availability of CXone in Osaka

About NICE

With NICE (Nasdaq: NICE), it's never been easier for organizations of all sizes around the globe to create
extraordinary customer experiences while meeting key business metrics. Featuring the world's #1 cloud native
customer experience platform, CXone, NICE is a worldwide leader in AI-powered self-service and agent-assisted
CX software for the contact center - and beyond. Over 25,000 organizations in more than 150 countries, including
over 85 of the Fortune 100 companies, partner with NICE to transform - and elevate - every customer interaction.
www.nice.com

***

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, including the statements by Mr. Rushworth, are based on
the current beliefs, expectations and assumptions of the management of NICE Ltd. (the "Company"). In some
cases, such forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as "believe," "expect," "seek," "may," "will,"
"intend," "should," "project," "anticipate," "plan," "estimate," or similar words. Forward-looking statements are
subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results or performance of the Company to
differ materially from those described herein, including but not limited to the impact of changes in economic and
business conditions; competition; successful execution of the Company's growth strategy; success and growth of
the Company's cloud Software-as-a-Service business; changes in technology and market requirements; decline in
demand for the Company's products; inability to timely develop and introduce new technologies, products and
applications; difficulties in making additional acquisitions or difficulties or delays in absorbing and integrating
acquired operations, products, technologies and personnel; loss of market share; an inability to maintain certain
marketing and distribution arrangements; the Company's dependency on third-party cloud computing platform
providers, hosting facilities and service partners; cyber security attacks or other security breaches against the
Company; privacy concerns; changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, the effects of additional tax
liabilities resulting from our global operations, the effect of unexpected events or geo-political conditions, such as
the impact of conflicts in the Middle East that may disrupt our business and the global economy; the effect of newly
enacted or modified laws, regulation or standards on the Company and our products and various other factors and
uncertainties discussed in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). For a more
detailed description of the risk factors and uncertainties affecting the company, refer to the Company's reports filed
from time to time with the SEC, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 20-F. The forward-looking
statements contained in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, and the Company
undertakes no obligation to update or revise them, except as required by law.

***

Original text here:     https://www.nice.com/press-releases/nice-expands-its-presence-in-japan-with-availability-of-
cxone-in-osaka

[Category: BizComputer Technology]

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8519654 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 8, 2024


  
