

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 3
                                   Intermap Announces 2023 Results and 2024 Guidance




                    Intermap Announces 2023 Results and 2024 Guidance
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                               April 2, 2024 Tuesday 2:29 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: EARNINGS RELEASES AND OPERATING RESULTS
Length: 1344 words

Body

Software and solutions revenue grew 25% in 2023

Company projects 2024 bookings of $20 – 25 million, revenue of $16 – 18 million and an adjusted EBITDA margin
of approximately 25%

DENVER, April 02, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Intermap Technologies (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF)
(“Intermap” or the “Company”), a global leader in 3D geospatial products and intelligence solutions, today
announced 2023 financial results and 2024 guidance.

For the year ending December 31, 2023, the Company reported revenue of $6.2 million, compared with $6.8 million
the previous year. Recurring and repeating software and solutions revenue grew to $4.2 million, 67% of total
revenue, compared with $3.4 million in 2022. A decline in acquisition revenue of $1.1 million was caused by a delay
in the award of a significant government contract, which was subsequently announced in March 2024, as well as
the pandemic-related restrictions that remained across Southeast Asia until late 2023. U.S. government work was
also delayed by the federal budget impasse. The Company expects to begin collecting this revenue during 2024.
Despite the contracting delays, Intermap’s EPS for 2023 improved to ($0.10) per share, compared with ($0.16) per
share for the previous year.

Subsequent to year end, Intermap announced the award of a material contract from the Indonesian government.
This initial award includes an opportunity to repeat, with follow-on requirements to complete mapping the country
during an additional 4-year period. Work on this contract commenced in February 2024. Including Indonesia, for the
current year ending December 31, 2024, the Company projects total bookings in the range of $20-25 million, with
$16-18 million in revenue and an adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 25%.

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 3
                               Intermap Announces 2023 Results and 2024 Guidance

“Our government and commercial businesses are off to a strong start in 2024,” said Patrick A. Blott, Intermap
Chairman and CEO. “We’ve recently announced major government wins and we remain on track to extend our
high-growth, high-margin services model to these large government accounts.”

2023 notable commercial achievements include:
    •   Grew in core commercial market: Won a $1 million multiyear renewal and increased multiple recurring
        subscriptions by 60-350%
    •   Extended product offering: Partnered with Twinn by Royal HaskoningDHV to provide additional natural
        hazard data for the global insurance industry
    •   Expanded market reach: Won multiyear contracts in Europe, exceeding $1.3 million, expanding software
        solution to incorporate risk, appraisal and pricing applications for global residential and commercial real
        estate
    •   Entered new, fast-growing segments: Won a new contract with a global spacecraft and communications
        operator to supply proprietary NEXTMap® elevation data to improve simulation, regulatory compliance and
        global situational awareness. Revised a subscription with a leading autonomous aviation customer for
        NEXTView™, the Company’s certified aviation specific elevation dataset

2023 notable government work includes:
    •   Won competitive government project in Singapore for water pollution monitoring
    •   Secured and completed Intermap’s first task orders under the U.S. Defense Department’s JANUS contract
    •   Completed task orders for the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs dam inundations studies
        IDIQ prime contract
    •   Two-year subscription renewal by the State of California with an increase of 50% for its NEXTMap
        elevation data
    •   Contracted by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) to provide precision elevation data for NASA
        moon landing simulations in preparation for the Artemis III mission
    •   Showcased proprietary advanced AI/ML technology to the U.S. Department of Defense for next-
        generation, actionable, geo-precise coordinates

Intermap’s audited annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, the annual management
discussion and analysis for the corresponding period, related management certifications of annual filings and its
annual information form will be filed and available on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca on April 2, 2024.

Learn more about Intermap at intermap.com/investors.

Intermap Reader AdvisoryCertain information provided in this news release, including reference to full-year
guidance, projected bookings, revenue and EBITDA, constitutes forward-looking statements. The words
"anticipate", "expect", "project", "estimate", "forecast", “will be”, “will consider”, “intends”, “guidance” and similar
expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Although Intermap believes that these
statements are based on information and assumptions which are current, reasonable and complete, these
statements are necessarily subject to a variety of known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Intermap’s forward-
looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties pertaining to, among other things, cash available to fund
operations, availability of capital, revenue fluctuations, nature of government contracts, economic conditions, loss of
key customers, retention and availability of executive talent, competing technologies, common share price volatility,
loss of proprietary information, software functionality, internet and system infrastructure functionality, information
technology security, breakdown of strategic alliances, and international and political considerations, as well as
those risks and uncertainties discussed Intermap’s Annual Information Form and other securities filings. While the
Company makes these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of these risks or uncertainties
materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from those

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 3
                              Intermap Announces 2023 Results and 2024 Guidance

expected. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking
statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what benefits that the Company will derive therefrom. All
subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, attributable to Intermap or persons acting on its
behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements
contained in this news release are made as at the date of this news release and the Company does not undertake
any obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking statements made herein, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable securities law.

About Intermap TechnologiesFounded in 1997 and headquartered in Denver, Colorado, Intermap (TSX: IMP;
OTCQB: ITMSF) is a global leader in geospatial intelligence solutions, focusing on the creation and analysis of 3D
terrain data to produce high-resolution thematic models. Through scientific analysis of geospatial information and
patented sensors and processing technology, the Company provisions diverse, complementary, multi-source
datasets to enable customers to seamlessly integrate geospatial intelligence into their workflows. Intermap’s 3D
elevation data and software analytic capabilities enable global geospatial analysis through artificial intelligence
and machine learning, providing customers with critical information to understand their terrain environment. By
leveraging its proprietary archive of the world’s largest collection of multi-sensor global elevation data, the
Company’s collection and processing capabilities provide multi-source 3D datasets and analytics at mission speed,
enabling governments and companies to build and integrate geospatial foundation data with actionable insights.
Applications for Intermap’s products and solutions include defense, aviation and UAV flight planning, flood and
wildfire insurance, disaster mitigation, base mapping, environmental and renewable energy planning,
telecommunications, engineering, critical infrastructure monitoring, hydrology, land management, oil and gas and
transportation.


For more information, please visit www.intermap.com or contact: Jennifer Bakken Executive Vice President
and CFO CEO@intermap.com +1 (303) 708-0955



Load-Date: April 2, 2024


  
