

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 8
                                  Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024




                  Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           March 23, 2024 Saturday 9:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3589 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(TNSres) -- The U.S. Census Bureau issued the following tip sheet (No. 5) on March 22, 2024:

***

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

***

2030 Census Preparation

Initial Strategies for 2030 Census Preparations

The Census Bureau plans to release five strategy documents outlining how it plans to carry out the next decennial
census. The strategies cover the Census Bureau's approach for conducting a complete count, designing
operations, developing the IT solution, sourcing contracts and engaging with stakeholders for the 2030 Census.
(Tentatively scheduled for release in March.)

***

2020 Census

Census Bureau to Release Estimates of State and County Undercounts and Overcounts for Young Children in the
2020 Census

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release the Demographic Analysis estimates of state and county net coverage
error for children ages 0 to 4 in the 2020 Census. This is the first time the Census Bureau is releasing these
experimental Demographic Analysis estimates designed to help gauge the accuracy of the 2020 Census count of
the nation's youngest children. (Scheduled for release April 11.)

***

American Community Survey

New Report on the Nation's Foreign-Born Population

The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled to release new data products highlighting select demographic and
socioeconomic characteristics of the nation's foreign-born population. The Foreign-Born Population 2022 report
compares 2010 and 2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year estimates to provide insight into the changing
composition of the foreign-born population in the United States. The Highlights of the Foreign-Born Population data
visualization displays 2018-2022 ACS 5-year estimates about the foreign-born population at various levels of
geography, including national, state and county. (Tentatively scheduled for release in April.)

***

Demographic

New 2020 Census Brief on Households and Families

The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled to release a Households and Families: 2020 brief that provides relationship
to the householder and household type data from the 2020 Census. The brief combines information from four
previously released America Counts stories: Share of U.S. Coupled Households Declined in 2020; Married Couple
Households Made Up Most of Family Households; Home Alone: More Than A Quarter of All Households Have One
Person; and Several Generations Under One Roof. Data in the brief come from the 2020 Census Demographic and
Housing Characteristics File. (Tentatively scheduled for release March 25.)

***

New 2022 Congressional Election Voting Report

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new report, Voting and Registration in the Election of November 2022,
based on data from the 2022 Current Population Survey (CPS) Voting and Registration Supplement. The report
highlights patterns in voter turnout over time among the citizen voting-age population (CVAP) and explores
demographic groups over- and under-represented in the 2022 congressional elections compared to the CVAP as a
whole. (Tentatively scheduled for release in April.)

Parental Mortality Brief

The U.S. Census Bureau will be releasing a new research brief on parental mortality based on the 2022 Survey of
Income and Program Participation (SIPP). This report presents national level statistics for the percentage of people
who lost a mother or father and how these estimates varied by age and race/ethnicity. (Tentatively scheduled for
release in March/April.)

Census Bureau Releases New U.S. Population Estimates by Age and Sex

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release a downloadable file containing estimates of the nation's resident
population by sex and single year of age as of July 1, 2023. In the coming months, the Census Bureau will release
additional population estimates for cities as well as population estimates by age, sex, race and Hispanic origin for
the nation, states, metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas, and counties. (Scheduled for release April 11.)

Household Pulse Survey

                                                                                                      Page 3 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024

The experimental Household Pulse Survey (HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4 topics include employment status, spending, food security, housing, health, mental health, natural
disasters, inflation and spending, vaccine receipt, COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, shortage of critical products,
disability, income, social connection and child care arrangements. Data collection for phase 4.0 began January 9,
with data dissemination, including detailed data tables and public-use files, on a monthly basis. (Scheduled for
release April 18.)

***

Economic

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures for Robotic Equipment

The Census Bureau will release new Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES) estimates. ACES estimates by
business type add details to national-level estimates of investment in machinery and equipment. The estimates
reflect data defined by 2017 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) industries in which the robotic
investment was made. (Tentatively scheduled for release April 10.)

Call for Presentations Has Been Extended for the 2024 LED Partnership Virtual Workshop - (Deadline: April 1,
2024)

The call for presentations has been extended to April 1. Submit your proposal for the 2024 LED Partnership Virtual
Workshop set to be held May 14-16. The workshop theme is "Multidimensional Perspectives of the Labor Market."
Highlight your work among peer data users with your research on topics, including but not limited to workforce
development, economic development, transportation planning, economic analysis, and emergency management.
The focus of presentations at the workshop is useful utilization of data made possible through the LED Partnership:
the Quarterly Workforce Indicators (QWI), the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) Origin-
Destination Employee Statistics (LODES), OnTheMap, Job-to-Job Flows (J2J), Post-Secondary Employment
Outcomes (PSEO), or Veteran Employment Outcomes (VEO). Refer to this document (151 KB) for additional
proposal guidelines and contact information.

"Mom and Pop Shops Lead Job Recovery from Economic Downturn after Covid-19"

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute, welcomes Bryce
Hill, as he presents, "Mom and Pop Shops Lead Job Recovery from Economic Downturn after Covid-19." The
Census Bureau's Quarterly Workforce Indicators (QWI) data set indicates that small businesses with fewer than 50
employees create the majority of new jobs in the state of Illinois. Despite obstacles from the pandemic and
government policies, Hill shares insight on how small businesses thrived in new jobs, employment, and payroll.
(Scheduled for release April 17.)

Commodity Flow Survey Expanded Hazardous Materials Supplement

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new experimental data product, the Commodity Flow Survey Expanded
Hazardous Materials (EHM) Supplement. The EHM is a supplemental set of questions about the packaging of
hazardous materials that were added to the first and fourth quarters of the 2022 Commodity Flow Survey (CFS).
Data were collected for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). The EHM will
include annual data for 2021 and 2022. (Tentatively scheduled for release in early April.)

Census Business Builder Version 5.5

The U.S. Census Bureau will release version 5.5 of the Census Business Builder (CBB) tool. This update will
introduce a new supply chain view in the CBB dashboard, which will allow users to report on the economic impact
of FEMA declared disasters areas by NAICS code at Ports of Entry to the U.S. Version 5.5 will also include a

                                                                                                       Page 4 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024

cartographic representation of supply chain data, as well as enhancements to reports and the latest data available.
More information on Census Business Builder is available online. (Scheduled for release in April.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. BTOS
experimental data products are representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding farms.
Data are available by additional employment size classes: 1-4 employees, 5-9 employees, 10-19 employees, 20-49
employees, 50-99 employees, 100-249 employees and 250 or more employees. The data allow greater insight into
the state of the economy by providing continuous, timely information for key economic measures. Data are released
biweekly and are available by sector, state and the 25 most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Additional
details on artificial intelligence use and types used will be added for one cycle starting December 4, 2023, and
released in March 2024. Because of the change in sample composition, BTOS data from before September 11,
2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional and national levels and by industry sector
at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released April 11 and will include March 2024 data. Business
Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (census.gov).

***

Facts for Features

Asian-American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month: May 2024 -- This month-long observance of Asian-Americans
and Pacific Islanders started more than 25 years ago. We celebrate their growing contributions to our nation with a
host of demographic and economic statistical information about the Asian and Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific
Islander populations. (Scheduled for release in March.)

***

Recently Released

(Released since March 8, 2024)

Census Scientific Advisory Committee 2024 Spring Meeting

The U.S. Census Bureau hosted the Census Scientific Advisory Committee Meeting March 14-15. Experts and
representatives of various organizations from across the nation attended the virtual meeting to discuss census
programs, operations and innovative processes.

Census Bureau and PRB Seek Steering Committee Members for Data User Groups

In partnership with the U.S. Census Bureau, the Population Reference Bureau (PRB) is soliciting applications for
membership on two separate steering committees to help us plan activities for engaging data users. PRB is a
nonpartisan, not-for-profit research organization focused on improving people's health and well-being through
evidence-based policies and practices. PRB has been a long-term partner to the Census Bureau, helping to inform
and educate the data user community about the importance and value of data from the American Community
Survey (ACS) and the decennial census.

***

2020 Census

Estimates of State and County Undercounts and Overcounts for Young Children

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 8
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024

March 12 -- The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release on April 11 the Demographic Analysis estimates of state and
county net coverage error for children ages 0 to 4 in the 2020 Census. This is the first time the Census Bureau is
releasing these experimental Demographic Analysis estimates designed to help gauge the accuracy of the 2020
Census count of the nation's youngest children. This release follows the March 2022 Demographic Analysis
estimates release that showed children ages 0 to 4 were undercounted by 5.4% in 2020 for the nation.

***

Demographic

County Population and Components of Change and Population of Metropolitan and Puerto Rico Municipios
Estimates: July 1, 2023

March 14 -- Internet tables and detailed downloadable files show annual population estimates for county population
and demographic components of population change, metropolitan and micropolitan statistical area population, and
Puerto Rico municipio population since the 2020 Census. Spanish

***

Economic

"New Enhancements of the Census Business Builder (CBB)"

March 20 -- The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with
the Council for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute,
welcomed Nidaal Jubran as he presented, "New Enhancements of the Census Business Builder." Recently the U.S.
Census Bureau released version 5.4 of the Census Business Builder tool. This update features a new enhancement
that will allow users to evaluate declared disaster areas and their impacts. CBB v5.4 also includes enhancements
to existing functionality and the latest data available including workforce data from the Quarterly Workforce
Indicators. More information on Census Business Builder is available online.

Release of Business Dynamics Statistics of High Growth Firms

March 19 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released the Business Dynamics Statistics of High Growth Firms (BDS-High
Growth) experimental data product. The BDS-High Growth is part of a broader set of approaches aimed at better
measuring the business dynamics of innovative firms. The data provides annual statistics for 1978 to 2021 by firm
growth rates and a series of firm and establishment characteristics including size, age, industry, and geography.

New Annual Integrated Economic Survey Officially Launched

March 18 -- The U.S. Census Bureau launched its newest survey, the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES),
on March 15, 2024. This new program replaces seven annual economic surveys and streamlines reporting by
consolidating all necessary questions into one convenient survey. Approximately 370,000 businesses began
receiving notices to respond to the 2023 AIES.

The statistics created from collected data will provide key measures of economic activity, including the only
comprehensive national and subnational data on business revenues, expenses and assets on an annual basis. For
more information on the AIES, visit census.gov/aies.

2021 Nonemployer Statistics

March 14 -- The Census Bureau released the 2021 Nonemployer Statistics (NES). This annual series provides
subnational economic data for businesses that have no paid employees, are subject to federal income tax, and
have receipts of $1,000 or more ($1 or more for the Construction sector). The data consist of the number of
businesses and total receipts by industry and are available for approximately 470 industries at detailed geographic
levels, including national, state, county, metropolitan/micropolitan statistical areas and combined statistical areas.

                                                                                                     Page 6 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024

Quarterly Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenues: 4th Quarter 2023

March 14 -- The Census Bureau released a summary of quarterly estimates of state and local government tax
revenue at the national level as well as detailed tax revenue data for individual states. This report produces two
income and sales data tables and one table for tax collections by state. More information about this release is
available in the 2023 Quarterly Summary of State & Local Tax Revenue Tables at census.gov.

Cannabis Excise Sales Tax Collections: 4th Quarter 2023

March 14 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released experimental data and an updated data visualization featuring
quarterly tax collections at the state level for cannabis sales. Data for cannabis sales taxes were reported in the
Quarterly Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenue and were first released for the second quarter of
2023. The data visualization provides cannabis revenue as a percent of the states total tax revenue where available
and percent change from the prior quarter. More information about this data can be found online.

Experimental Data Product: Monthly Puerto Rico Business Applications

March 12 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released the first publication of the experimental data product "Monthly
Puerto Rico Business Applications." This experimental data product features four monthly business applications
series for Puerto Rico and uses the same methodology for business applications as the existing monthly Business
Formation Statistics (BFS). Spanish

***

Facts for Features

Women's History Month: March 2024

The roots of National Women's History Month go back to March 8, 1857, when women from various New York City
factories staged a protest over poor working conditions. The first Women's Day celebration in the United States was
in 1909, also in New York City, but Congress did not establish National Women's History Week until 1981 to be
commemorated annually the second week of March. In 1987, Congress expanded the week to a month.

***

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

* Grandparents Living With Grandchildren (March 19)

* Four of Nation's Fastest-Growing Metro Areas Are in Florida (March 14)

* "Excess Mortality" During COVID-19 Varied by Race, Ethnicity, Geography (March 12)

* Seven Annual Economic Surveys Combined into One (March 7)

***

Blogs

Integrating Our Business Statistics for an Ever-Changing U.S. Economy -- Written by: Nick Orsini, Associate
Director for Economic Programs -- March 18

                                                                                                  Page 7 of 8
                            Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024

As part of our ongoing commitment to innovation and to address our many stakeholder needs, the Economic
Directorate has been working across all areas of the U.S. Census Bureau to reengineer our annual economic
surveys. This process began in 2015, when the Census Bureau asked the Committee on National Statistics
(CNSTAT) of the National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine to assemble a panel to conduct a
comprehensive review of our annual economic surveys. Their findings and recommendations are summarized in
this 2018 report "Reengineering the Census Bureau's Annual Economic Surveys," resulting in the Annual Integrated
Economic Survey (AIES) that began data collection March 15.

***

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources -- When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management
webpage for demographic and economic data on impacted areas. Each disaster will include data from our key
emergency management tools: OnTheMap for Emergency Management, Community Resilience Estimates, Census
Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition, and other useful resources.

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community -- Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-
plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from
the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official information about America's people, businesses,
industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

* Atlanta

* Chicago

* Denver

* Los Angeles

* New York

* Philadelphia

* All Surveys

***

Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage.

Census Geocoder -- Provides interactive & programmatic (REST) access to users interested in matching addresses
to geographic locations and entities containing those addresses.

Data Equity Tools -- The U.S Census Bureau's publicly available data sets and tools to assist in the equitable
distribution of resources, and identifying underserved communities.

Small Business Pulse Survey Data -- The Small Business Pulse Survey (SBPS) measures the effect of changing
business conditions during the Coronavirus pandemic on our nation's small businesses.

***

Training Opportunities

                                                                                                      Page 8 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 22, 2024

Census Bureau Training Opportunities -- Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and
use Census Bureau statistics. These free sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate
Census Bureau databases and mapping tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national
level. Descriptions of upcoming sessions are available on our Census Academy webpage. Login details are
provided at least one week before a webinar.

* TIGERweb - Prowling Through Geographic Attributes (Thursday, March 28, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Taking the Guesswork Out of MDAT (Thursday, March 28, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* New Public School Counts for Puerto Rico (Tuesday, April 2, 11:30-12:30 p.m. EDT)

* Credit Insurance as a Risk Mitigation Tool for International Trade (Wednesday, April 10, 3-4 p.m. EDT)

* What are Public Use Microdata Areas (PUMAs)? (Thursday, April 11, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Using Census Data: A Case Study & Data Tools Walk Through (Thursday, April 18, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Using CBP Non-Employer Statistics (NES) to Evaluate Change (Thursday, April 25, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Estimados y Proyecciones de la Poblacion de Puerto Rico (Tuesday, April 2, 11:30-12:30 p.m. EDT)

***

Archived Training Resources -- Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library for previously recorded,
free training available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded webinars, tutorials and
other helpful materials.

***

Original text here: https://www.census.gov/newsroom/tip-sheets/2024/tp24-06.html

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8544874 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 23, 2024


  
