

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 3
           Verizon named to Fast Company’s annual list of the World’s Most Innovative Companies of 2024




Verizon named to Fast Company’s annual list of the World’s Most Innovative
                          Companies of 2024
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              March 19, 2024 Tuesday 9:48 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CONTESTS/AWARDS
Length: 968 words

Body


NEW YORK, March 19, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Verizon today announced it has been named to Fast
Company’s prestigious list of the World’s Most Innovative Companies of 2024.

This year’s list shines a spotlight on businesses that are shaping industry and culture through their innovations.
These organizations are setting new standards and achieving remarkable milestones in all sectors of the economy.
Alongside the World's 50 Most Innovative Companies, Fast Company recognizes 606 organizations across 58
sectors and regions.

Verizon is being recognized as #1 in the Corporate Social Responsibility category for its commitment to the
development and use of innovative new technology like drones, robotics and more to help maintain mission-critical
communications during disaster response operations.

“When responsible business is at the core of operations and used as a driver of growth and innovation, every
stakeholder benefits,” said Hans Vestberg, Chairman and CEO of Verizon. “We have a long-standing commitment
to innovating on behalf of the communities we serve to keep people connected to the things that matter most
wherever and whenever they need.”

With nearly 600 deployable assets already available to support public safety agencies and first responders
nationwide, Verizon recently debuted three new innovative deployable assets that are highly portable and designed
to deliver mission-critical communications to first responders and the communities they serve.

The first of the new assets is the compact Verizon Rapid Response Connectivity Unit. It’s just over six-feet long,
two-and-a-half-feet wide and is built for versatility, portability and ease of use. It is designed to be deployed by one

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
         Verizon named to Fast Company’s annual list of the World’s Most Innovative Companies of 2024

person in fewer than 15 minutes and is capable of delivering secure and reliable voice and internet service for first
responders under austere conditions.

The second new asset is Verizon Frontline’s Mobile Connectivity Agile Vehicle, a modified electric motorcycle
capable of providing first responders with mission-critical communications capabilities when operating in areas that
traditional vehicles and larger deployable assets can't reach.

These prototypes were created in partnership with first responders as part of the Verizon Frontline Innovation
Program. This program is designed to develop new and unique solutions that can leverage Verizon's network to
help first responders do their jobs more safely and efficiently.

Verizon also recently introduced another innovative new mobile asset. Called Mobile Onsite Network-as-a-Service
(NaaS), the solution delivers a private network, private mobile edge compute (MEC), SD WAN, and satellite
connectivity to customer locations. The 10-foot portable trailer was developed with dual-core network capabilities
supporting both 4G and 5G standalone functionality. It also provides scalable, reliable 5G and edge compute that
can be managed locally by enterprise and public sector customers for enhanced operational flexibility just about
wherever they need it.

The World's Most Innovative Companies stands as Fast Company's hallmark franchise and one of its most
anticipated editorial efforts of the year.

Fast Company's editors and writers identified the companies driving progress around the world and across
industries, evaluating thousands of submissions through a competitive application process. The result is a globe-
spanning guide to innovation today, from early-stage startups to some of the most valuable companies in the world.
Fast Company’s Most Innovative Companies package is available online, as well as in-app form via iTunes, and on
newsstands beginning March 26. The hashtag is #FCMostInnovative.

“Our list of the Most Innovative Companies is both a comprehensive look at the innovation economy and a snapshot
of the business trends that defined the year,” said Fast Company editor-in-chief Brendan Vaughan. “We saw
extraordinary innovation across the board in 2023, but we also saw a handful of clear patterns: the growing footprint
and impact of AI, the triumphant return of live events, and great leaps forward in climate tech. We face daunting
challenges on many fronts, but the solutions we celebrate in MIC give me plenty of hope about the future.”

Fast Company will host the Most Innovative Companies Summit and Gala on May 16. The summit features a
morning and afternoon of inspiring content, followed by a creative black-tie gala including networking, a seated
dinner, and an honoree presentation. This event celebrates the Most Innovative Companies honorees and provides
an inside look at cutting-edge business trends and what it takes to innovate in 2024.

ABOUT VERIZONVerizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ) was formed in 2000 and is one of the world’s
leading providers of technology and communications services. Headquartered in New York City and with a
presence around the world, Verizon generated revenues of $134.0 billion in 2023. The company offers data, video
and voice services and solutions on its award-winning networks and platforms, delivering on customers’ demand for
mobility, reliable network connectivity, and security.

ABOUT FAST COMPANYFast Company is the only media brand fully dedicated to the vital intersection of
business, innovation, and design, engaging the most influential leaders, companies, and thinkers on the future of
business. Headquartered in New York City, Fast Company is published by Mansueto Ventures LLC, along with our
sister publication Inc., and can be found online at www.fastcompany.com.

VERIZON’S ONLINE MEDIA CENTER: News releases, stories, media contacts and other resources are available
at verizon.com/news. News releases are also available through an RSS feed. To subscribe, visit
www.verizon.com/about/rss-feeds/.

Media contact: Eric Durieeric.durie@verizon.com 516-382-8219

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
         Verizon named to Fast Company’s annual list of the World’s Most Innovative Companies of 2024


Load-Date: March 19, 2024


  
