

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                             US Signal Finalizes Upgrades to Indianapolis North Data Center




           US Signal Finalizes Upgrades to Indianapolis North Data Center
                                                           PR Newswire
                                            June 20, 2024 Thursday 9:10 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 526 words
Dateline: GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., June 20, 2024

Body


PR NewswireGRAND RAPIDS, Mich., June 20, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --US Signal, a leader in digital infrastructure
providing cloud solutions, network connectivity, and data center services, is nearing the completion of significant
upgrades to its newly acquired Indianapolis North Data Center in Indianapolis. Located at 6325 Morenci Trail, this
data center marks US Signal's third data center in Indiana.Etzel Engineer and Build, Inc. has been contracted to
assist with the renovation and expansion of the data center, which is scheduled to officially open in August.

Revolutionizing Digital Infrastructure in Indianapolis"Phase One of the upgrades is nearly complete, setting the
stage for us to immediately activate production capabilities," says John White, COO of US Signal. "We are already
seeing strong market demand and customers pre-buying space, which underscores the necessity and importance
of this expansion."The Indianapolis North Data Center meets Uptime's Tier III standards, ensuring high availability
and robust security measures, including storm and emergency response plans and multi-faceted recovery
strategies. This SSAE 18-audited, HIPAA-compliant, PCI-certified facility can serve as a secondary disaster
recovery site or an integral component of a hybrid IT strategy. All critical components boast redundancy, with
efficient cooling solutions maintaining consistent temperature and humidity levels.Enhanced CapabilitiesUpon
completion of the upgrades, the 9,600-square-foot data center will feature:300 available cabinets24/7 staffing and
multi-level security10-12 new employeesOver 6 miles of new fiber construction passing 500+ enterprise
locationsPotential for further expansion in Phase Three, which would include power and space for 600 cabinets"We
strive to provide low latency, high availability, and scalable services," White continues, "as the demand for reliable
and secure cloud services grows in parallel with the rise of cloud-based technologies and artificial
intelligence."Open House EventTo celebrate the opening, US Signal will host a ribbon-cutting ceremony on
Thursday, July 11, from 12-4 PM EDT at the Indianapolis North Data Center. Local businesses are invited to attend
the event, which will include guided tours, remarks from US Signal's Executive Team, exclusive giveaways, and
more.For a detailed overview of the Indianapolis North Data Center's key upgrades and specifications, clickhere.
Interested in leasing availability? Contact US Signalhere.About US SignalUS Signal is a Midwest-based digital
infrastructure company. Founded in 2001, US Signal is a leading IT solutions provider powered by a wholly owned
and operated fiber network, which helps businesses optimize resources through the provision of managed and
professional services. Offerings include network, data center, connectivity, cloud hosting, colocation, data
protection, and disaster recovery services. For more information, visitwww.ussignal.com.CONTACT:
Maya Lindsay
 View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/us-signal-finalizes-
upgrades-to-indianapolis-north-data-center-302178003.htmlSOURCE US Signal

                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                       US Signal Finalizes Upgrades to Indianapolis North Data Center


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
