

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 3
                                     HCA Healthcare Releases 2024 Annual Impact Report




                     HCA Healthcare Releases 2024 Annual Impact Report
                                                       Business Wire
                                          March 28, 2024 Thursday 12:30 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1536 words
Dateline: NASHVILLE, Tenn.

Body


HCA Healthcare, Inc. (NYSE:HCA), one of the nation's leading healthcare providers, today announced the release
of its annual Impact Report that reflects on the past year and highlights HCA Healthcare's positive impact across
the communities it serves.

"At HCA Healthcare, our purpose is clear: We exist to give people a healthier tomorrow," said Sam Hazen, CEO of
HCA Healthcare. "We focus our strategy, resources, and systems on ensuring we deliver the quality care patients
deserve. This work, and all our accomplishments this year, would not be possible without our dedicated colleagues.
I'm continually impressed by the depth of talent and knowledge we have as an organization."

The HCA Healthcare Impact Report highlights significant efforts of the organization in enhancing care experiences,
caring for its colleagues and giving back to the communities it serves. For additional details on these areas, please
visit HCAhealthcareImpact.com to learn more.

Enhancing care experiences

Delivering safe, high-quality care during its more than 43 million annual patient encounters is HCA Healthcare's top
priority. Last year, 32 HCA Healthcare hospitals were recognized on the Fortune/PINC AI 100 Top Hospitals list,
and in early 2024, 54 HCA Healthcare hospitals were included on Healthgrades' 250 Best Hospitals list for clinical
excellence.

HCA Healthcare has continued to integrate healthcare technology through strategic collaborations to help deliver
high-quality patient care. In August 2023, HCA Healthcare and Google Cloud announced a collaboration to use
generative AI to assist care teams with time-consuming tasks like documentation. HCA Healthcare has also
developed a scheduling and staffing solution for nurses, which is currently in operation at nine HCA Healthcare
facilities, with an additional 21 hospitals scheduled for deployment in early 2024. Additionally, the company is
implementing a new electronic health record (EHR) system to help create efficiencies for care teams, improve
coordination of care for patients and power innovation. The company's department of Care Transformation and
Innovation (CT&I) continues to work closely with highly engaged clinicians to refine tools like these and to expand
the use of technology throughout the organization.

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 3
                               HCA Healthcare Releases 2024 Annual Impact Report

At HCA Healthcare, research helps unlock insights to real-world data and treatments to advance patient care. The
HCA Healthcare Research Institute, the organization's multispecialty clinical research arm, expanded support to 36
HCA Healthcare hospitals and participated in more than 300 industry-sponsored studies in 2023.

In 2023, HCA Healthcare provided the delivery of charity care, uninsured discounts and other uncompensated care
at an estimated cost of approximately $3.7 billion.

Caring for colleagues

In 2023, HCA Healthcare recruited more than 116,500 colleagues, including 37,500 bedside nurses. To support
nurses, HCA Healthcare invested in roles to help support nursing workload, including licensed practical nurses
(LPNs), licensed vocational nurses (LVNs), nurse externs, paramedics and patient care technicians (PCTs).

Recognizing nurses are the heart of HCA Healthcare, the company announced more than $300 million in
investments to support the education and training of nurses through the opening of new HCA Healthcare Centers
for Clinical Advancement and the expansion of Galen College of Nursing. Since joining HCA Healthcare, Galen has
opened 14 new campuses nationwide.

HCA Healthcare was founded by physicians with the intent of creating an environment where healthcare can
flourish. By prioritizing physician input, clinical capabilities, growth and innovation, HCA Healthcare strives to enable
its more than 45,000 active and affiliated physicians to focus more on what they do best: caring for patients. On July
1, 2023, HCA Healthcare, one of the leading sponsors of Graduate Medical Education (GME) programs in the U.S.,
welcomed over 2,000 new residents and fellows to its GME programs.

To support the health and well-being of colleagues, HCA Healthcare provides a variety of programs, resources and
opportunities including free counseling sessions and webinars through Optum, the Nurse Care helpline and student
loan and tuition assistance programs. In 2023, HCA Healthcare provided approximately $37.5 million through its
tuition assistance program.

The HCA Healthcare Hope Fund, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit run by colleagues, for colleagues, recently surpassed $100
million in grants, helping more than 52,000 families since its inception in 2005. Over $11.4 million in assistance was
distributed in 2023 to more than 3,800 HCA Healthcare colleagues and families.

Across HCA Healthcare, it is a priority to foster an equitable and inclusive environment for colleagues by leveraging
educational programs, strengthening partnerships with community organizations and implementing new initiatives.
For these efforts, HCA Healthcare was recognized for the second year in a row as a "Best Place to Work for
Disability Inclusion" by the American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) and Disability:IN, receiving a
top score on the 2023 Disability Equality Index.

In early 2024, Ethisphere recognized HCA Healthcare as one of the 2024 World's Most Ethical Companies for the
14th time for the organization's commitment to business integrity through robust ethics, compliance and governance
programs.

Giving back to communities

HCA Healthcare embraces its responsibility to help support a significant portion of the local economies where its
colleagues live and serve. In 2023, HCA Healthcare and the HCA Healthcare Foundation gave more than $43
million to community organizations across the nation. Additionally, HCA Healthcare colleagues logged more than
180,000 volunteer hours and $16.9 million in giving with HCA Healthcare matching.

In 2023, the HCA Healthcare Foundation invested over $12.2 million through grants to 234 agencies and nonprofit
organizations through its Middle Tennessee and Healthier Tomorrow Funds. The Healthier Tomorrow Fund, a
community impact fund focused on addressing high-priority community needs and advancing health equity, also
announced a new Health Equity Catalyst Grant Program, intended to provide operational support to organizations
addressing health inequities in a defined focus area to fight food insecurity.

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 3
                               HCA Healthcare Releases 2024 Annual Impact Report

The HCA Healthcare Foundation strengthened its support of Girl Scouts of the USA and helped to launch a new
series of Mental Wellness Patch Programs to help address mental wellness among girls in 4th through 12th grade.
To date, more than 7,000 girls have earned their Mental Wellness patch since the program's launch.

As part of its commitment to invest $10 million over three years in partnerships with Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) to help create opportunities for future healthcare
leaders, HCA Healthcare announced a gift of $620,000 to the University of California, Riverside (UCR) to support
five scholarships for students enrolled in the UCR School of Medicine. HCA Healthcare has now announced
approximately $7.42 million towards this commitment.

For the fifth year, HCA Healthcare supported the American Red Cross through its Annual Disaster Giving Program
(ADGP) to help provide funding for strong infrastructure, trained volunteers, innovative technology and critical
resources necessary to respond to a disaster. During many disasters, HCA Healthcare works alongside the Red
Cross in real-time to coordinate supplies and resources, support shelters and match patients with community
shelters when discharged from the hospital. During Hurricane Idalia, HCA Healthcare's Enterprise Emergency
Operations Center (EEOC) provided more than 1,200 staff hours of support, 16 electrical generators and more than
18,000 gallons of diesel fuel to its impacted hospitals to help them continue to provide care.

For more information about the annual HCA Healthcare Impact Report, visit HCAhealthcareImpact.com .

About HCA Healthcare

Nashville-based HCA Healthcare is one of the nation's leading providers of healthcare services comprising 186
hospitals and approximately 2,400 ambulatory sites of care, including surgery centers, freestanding ERs, urgent
care centers, and physician clinics, in 20 states and the United Kingdom. With its founding in 1968, HCA Healthcare
created a new model for hospital care in the United States, using combined resources to strengthen hospitals,
deliver patient-focused care and improve the practice of medicine. HCA Healthcare has conducted a number of
clinical studies, including one that demonstrated that full-term delivery is healthier than early elective delivery of
babies and another that identified a clinical protocol that can reduce bloodstream infections in ICU patients by 44%.
HCA Healthcare is a learning health system that uses its more than 43 million annual patient encounters to advance
science, improve patient care and save lives.

All references to "Company," "HCA" and "HCA Healthcare" as used throughout this document refer to HCA
Healthcare, Inc. and its affiliates.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240328491928/en/


CONTACT: INVESTOR CONTACT:
Frank Morgan
615-344-2688MEDIA CONTACT:
Harlow Sumerford
615-344-1851


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: March 28, 2024


  
