

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                                        Top Apple -related stories this week (April 8-12)




                          Top Apple-related stories this week (April 8-12)
                                                        Apple World Today
                                             April 13, 2024 Saturday 1:30 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Apple World Today Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved




Length: 394 words

Body


Since I can't cover everything, here are some recommended articles you should check out:

° From MacRumors: Several third-party browser companies have experienced a spike in iPhone installs since
Apple made major changes to iOS in order to comply with the Digital Markets Act in the European Union, but many
are not happy with Apple's implementation of its default browser choice screen.

° From Eurogamer: Epic Games: mobile "gatekeeping" is "at the heart of why the industry is in a rut."

° From AppleInsider: Google is shutting down its subscription-based VPN by Google One service later in 2024, with
the feature heading to the Google Graveyard due to being underused by its customers.

Top Apple-related stories this week (April 8-12)

Here are the top Apple-related articles at Apple World Today for the week of April 8-12.

° The United States Commerce Department plans to award Apple chip supplier TSMC US$6.6 billionin grants and
as much as $5 billion in loans to help the world's top chipmaker build factories in Arizona.

° Apple has updated its App Store guidelines to make it much easier to access game emulators through its digital
storefront.

° Apple's contract manufacturers and suppliers in India — including Foxconn, Tata, and Salcomp — are
spearheading initiativesto provide housing for their employees.

° The Mac saw good — maybe great — annual growth in the first quarter of 2024. However, exactly how good
depends on which research group report you prefer.

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                                   Top Apple -related stories this week (April 8-12)

° The 2024 "Taking Stock with Teens Survey" by the Piper Sandler research group has been released. And the
report is filled with good newsfor Apple.

° Apple now assembles one-in-7 of its iPhones in India, as part of the tech giant's accelerating shift from China.

° Apple Short Hills, an Apple retail store in the upscale town of Short Hills, New Jersey, has petitioned to unionize.

° Apple has announced an upcoming enhancement to existing repair processes that will enable customers and
independent repair providers to utilize used Apple parts in repairs.

° Apple is preparing to overhaul its entire Mac line with a new family of in-house processors designed to highlight
artificial intelligence, according to Bloomberg's Mark Gurman.

° Apple and companies affiliated with Travis Scott have to remain as defendants in an ongoing civil lawsuit involving
deaths and injuries at the 2021 Astroworld disaster.


Load-Date: April 13, 2024


  
