

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                    Public backs charity access to AI, research by the Charities Aid Foundation finds




 Public backs charity access to AI, research by the Charities Aid Foundation
                                     finds
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           January 29, 2024 Monday 9:26 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 481 words
Dateline: LONDON, Jan. 29, 2024

Body


PR Newswire'AI must not be the privilege of the few'LONDON, Jan. 29, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- People around
the world recognise the benefits that Artificial Intelligence can bring to further charitable causes, according to new
research from theCharities Aid Foundation (CAF). Indeed, most people (70%) believe that efforts should be made
to help charities of different sizes and resources to access AI.Ahead of Microsoft's first Global Non-Profit Leaders
Summit in Seattle, which a thousand non-profit leaders are expected to attend, CAF is encouraging technology
companies to consider how charities of all sizes can access the opportunities opened up by AI. With the pros and
cons of AI never far from the headlines, the research sought to understand views about the opportunities and risks
to charities of using AI.

For one of the first major studies on this issue, the research involved more than 6,000 people in 10 countries: UK,
USA, Australia, Japan, Poland, Indonesia, Kenya, India, Brazil and Turkey. Although the research found some have
their reservations, people are generally supportive about charities using AI. The most compelling opportunities for
charities are those that help them to have a greater direct human benefit. More than a quarter (28%) thought the
most exciting opportunity was how AI could help with a faster response to disasters, and 25% thought that it was
the potential ability of AI to allow charities to help more people.The research found that people who donate more to
charity tend to be more positive about charities using AI, with those considered higher donors in their country being
more likely to appreciate the benefits. However, people believe that charities should be cautious and transparent
about how they use AI. The significant majority (83%) of charity donors said they would pay attention to how a
charity said it was using AI, with higher donors more likely to take notice.Neil Heslop OBE, Chief Executive of the
Charities Aid Foundation said:"AI must not be the privilege of the few. We must work together with the
technology industry to ensure it is accessible for small and large charities. Digital advances have great potential to
support charities to further their missions and accelerate social progress. As a starting point, AI could help target
disaster relief more effectively, decrease the time spent on administrative tasks and improve operations."Charities
need to also remain alert to the risks, stay close to the human essence of their cause and communicate clearly with
donors to further social impact." Notes1. Neil Heslop is speaking at a plenary session, "How are Nonprofits using
AI?", at Microsoft'sGlobal Nonprofit Leaders Summit. View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-
releases/public-backs-charity-access-to-ai-research-by-the-charities-aid-foundation-finds-302046797.htmlSOURCE
Charities Aid Foundation

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                    Public backs charity access to AI, research by the Charities Aid Foundation finds


Load-Date: January 29, 2024


  
