

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 3
        NetApp Expands Intelligent Data Infrastructure Capabilities to Power Strategic Cloud Workloads New
                       capabilities empower customers to run data-intensive workload....




    NetApp Expands Intelligent Data Infrastructure Capabilities to Power
  Strategic Cloud Workloads; New capabilities empower customers to run
 data-intensive workloads like GenAI and VMware environments more easily
                                                   Business Wire
                                     July 10, 2024 Wednesday 12:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1406 words
Dateline: SAN JOSE, Calif.

Body

NetApp® (NASDAQ: NTAP), the intelligent data infrastructure company, today announced the introduction of new
capabilities designed for strategic cloud workloads including GenAI and VMware. These enhancements to NetApp
data and storage services reduce the resources and risks for customers to manage these strategic workloads
across increasingly complex hybrid multicloud environments.

"Strategic workloads, including GenAI and virtualized environments, are driving business innovation and have
increasingly complex and resource-intensive infrastructure requirements that are pushing IT teams to the limit," said
Pravjit Tiwana, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Cloud Storage at NetApp. "NetApp is helping
customers take back control of their data with intelligent data infrastructure that leverages unified data storage,
integrated data services, and automated cloud operations. Even when they are up against specific and nuanced
technology requirements for modern workloads, NetApp gives them the tools they need to optimize and simplify
their data operations in their environments across the hybrid multicloud."

To advance intelligent data infrastructure deployments that better support strategic workloads like GenAI and
VMware environments, NetApp is announcing new capabilities, including:
    •     NetApp BlueXP Workload Factory - for AWS: This intelligent data infrastructure service uses defined
          industry best-practices to automate the planning, provisioning, and management of cloud resources and
          services for key workloads, including GenAI, VMware cloud environments, and enterprise databases.
          Customers can use BlueXP workload factory to optimize deployment time, cost, performance, and
          protection of resources for strategic workloads as well as their associated data. To simplify workload
          migrations to the cloud, BlueXP workload factory allows users to profile infrastructure requirements for
          target workloads and compare different resource options for cost and performance needs. Then, the
          service can provision the selected resources, move any existing workload data to these newly provisioned
          cloud deployments, and continually optimize the entire environment to ensure the required cost and
          performance targets. AWS users can read guidance on how to deploy this capability on the AWS Solutions
          Library .
    •     NetApp GenAI Toolkit - Microsoft Azure NetApp Files Version: Customers can now include private
          enterprise data stored in Azure NetApp Files in their retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) workflows in a

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 3
        NetApp Expands Intelligent Data Infrastructure Capabilities to Power Strategic Cloud Workloads New
                       capabilities empower customers to run data-intensive workload....

         secure, programmatic manner. The result is an enhanced ability to generate unique, high-quality, and ultra-
         relevant results from GenAI projects by combining their proprietary data with pre-trained, foundational
         models (FMs). The integration of the NetApp GenAI Toolkit with Azure NetApp Files represents a powerful
         synergy that empowers customers to harness advanced language generation capabilities.
    •    Amazon Bedrock with Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP Reference Architecture: Amazon Web Services,
         Inc. (AWS) and NetApp have released a joint reference architecture which provides guidance for
         customers on implementing RAG-enabled workflows that bring proprietary data stored on Amazon FSx for
         NetApp ONTAP into their GenAI data pipelines. Amazon FSx makes it easy and cost effective to launch,
         run, and scale feature-rich, high-performance file systems in the cloud. The reference architecture allows
         developers to use APIs for Amazon Bedrock to connect with Amazon FSx for ONTAP data stores, enabling
         the secure use of proprietary data with a choice of high-performing FMs that can be customized to unlock
         new insights and capabilities.
    •    Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP Enhancements: AWS announced the next-generation Amazon FSx for
         ONTAP cloud storage service with enhanced capabilities to boost scalability and flexibility to provide up to
         6 GB per second of throughput for a single highly-available (HA) pair from 512 TiB of SSD storage. Next-
         gen file systems offer virtualized workloads more room to grow with a 300 percent increase in network
         burst throughput and a 150 percent boost in disk burst throughput. For large-scale, high-performance
         workloads like GenAI, second-generation Amazon FSx for ONTAP systems support dynamic scalability by
         adding HA pairs as needed, up to 24 nodes. This delivers up to 72 GB per second of throughput from 1 PiB
         of SSD storage, providing greater flexibility and performance for evolving business needs.
    •    NetApp BlueXP Disaster Recovery Support for VMFS: The BlueXP disaster recovery service, which
         provides guided workflows to design and execute automated disaster recovery plans for VMware
         workloads across both on-premises and cloud environments, has been expanded to support VMFS
         datastores for on-premises to on-premises disaster recovery.

These updates build on NetApp's existing offerings that support storage and data operations for customers that
need to implement and manage high-powered, strategic workloads such as GenAI and VMware environments. For
example, NetApp recently announced that its unique BlueXP data classification capability , which automatically
classifies and categorizes data for enhanced governance and secure ingest into GenAI and RAG data pipelines,
has become a core control plane capability now available free of charge to all NetApp customers.

"When it comes to GenAI, the prime focus for organizations is to adapt their data strategies to ensure they can
balance data security, cost efficiency and innovation as they leverage pre-built LLMs to surface relevant, useful
insights from their proprietary, business-relevant data," said Archana Venkatraman, Senior Research Director,
Cloud Data Management at IDC. "NetApp's intelligent data infrastructure capabilities can help customers overcome
the data challenges and offer specific guidance to automate workflows that can securely feed private data directly
into public cloud providers' LLMs. In addition, NetApp's BlueXP data classification capability has the potential to
mitigate the risks in data operations for AI because it allows users to discover and categorize data so that the right
data is fed into the right model without exposing confidential, personal or restricted information."

"Organizations are now facing different economic realities with regards to virtualized environments, and we all need
to move quickly to address recent industry shifts," said Derek Elbert, Solutions Architect at WWT. "Optimizing the
cost versus performance equation of VMware workloads has become a primary initiative for us, with the objective of
continuing to provide scalability and performance while reducing unnecessary system and software resources.
NetApp's offerings, such as the BlueXP disaster recovery service and the optimization metrics from Cloud Insights,
help us better ensure the right levels of resource allocation and protection schemes for virtual environments,
allowing us to focus on putting our infrastructure to work without killing the FinOps metrics."

Additional Resources

    •    When You Realize It's More About Data Than About Storage

                                                                                                     Page 3 of 3
        NetApp Expands Intelligent Data Infrastructure Capabilities to Power Strategic Cloud Workloads New
                       capabilities empower customers to run data-intensive workload....

    •    Big News For All NetApp Customers: Classify Your Data with an Industry-Leading Solution at No Cost

    •    Power Your Generative AI on AWS

About NetApp

NetApp is the intelligent data infrastructure company, combining unified data storage, integrated data services, and
CloudOps solutions to turn a world of disruption into opportunity for every customer. NetApp creates silo-free
infrastructure, harnessing observability and AI to enable the industry's best data management. As the only
enterprise-grade storage service natively embedded in the world's biggest clouds, our data storage delivers
seamless flexibility. In addition, our data services create a data advantage through superior cyber resilience,
governance, and application agility. Our CloudOps solutions provide continuous optimization of performance and
efficiency through observability and AI. No matter the data type, workload, or environment, with NetApp you can
transform your data infrastructure to realize your business possibilities. Learn more at www.netapp.com or follow us
on X , LinkedIn , Facebook , and Instagram .

NETAPP, the NETAPP logo, and the marks listed at www.netapp.com/TM are trademarks of NetApp, Inc. Other
company and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240710415938/en/


CONTACT: Media Contact:
Kenya Hayes
NetApp

kenya.hayes@netapp.com Investor Contact:
Kris Newton
NetApp

kris.newton@netapp.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 10, 2024


  
