

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
                   KU Graduate Students to Present Research to Legislators, Public at State Capitol




   KU Graduate Students to Present Research to Legislators, Public at State
                                  Capitol
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          March 20, 2024 Wednesday 7:50 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 620 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: LAWRENCE, Kansas

Body


(TNSres) -- The University of Kansas issued the following news:

Twelve University of Kansas graduate students from the Lawrence and KU Medical Center campuses will present
their innovative research March 21 at the state Capitol.

Legislators and the public will be able to hear from the students about the potential public and economic effects of
their research during the 21st annual Capitol Graduate Research Summit. Their research covers a broad range of
topics, including how metabolism affects Alzheimer's, the integration of artificial intelligence in higher education
and the health effects on children who experience food insecurity.

"The KU graduate students presenting at the Capitol Graduate Research Summit are working to develop solutions
to society's greatest questions and challenges," said Ric Steele, associate vice provost for graduate studies. "They
serve as examples of the vital contributions of our student researchers and of the university's commitment to
impactful research that addresses problems of worldwide significance and delivers solutions that make a difference
to the state, nation and the world."

Graduate students from Emporia State University, Fort Hays State University, Kansas State University, Pittsburg
State University and Wichita State University will also present at the research summit.

The top presenters from each university will earn a certificate and a $500 award.

KU Lawrence participants:

* Annie Chuning, doctoral student in clinical child psychology, "Rates of Food Insecurity Influence Parent/Child
Mental Health and BMI in Rural Kansas."

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 2
                 KU Graduate Students to Present Research to Legislators, Public at State Capitol

* Cassie Sutton, doctoral student in psychology, "Ultra-processed, Hyper-palatable, and Energy-dense Foods in the
U.S. Food Supply: Prevalence Across 30 Years."

* Kara Hageman, doctoral student in bioengineering, "Preventing Orthopedic Joint Infection by Developing
Antibacterial Bone Cement."

* Luke Parker, doctoral student in educational curriculum & instruction, "Transforming Academic Landscapes: A
Comprehensive Study of Artificial Intelligence's Integration in Higher Education at the University of Kansas."

* Merve Akin Tas, doctoral student in educational psychology, "Comparing the Use of Bayesian Network Analysis
and Spatial Analysis to Identify the Social Determinants of Health and Education in Kansas Counties and School
Districts."

* Mohsen Fatemi, doctoral student in public administration, "Navigating Transformative Change: Insights into City
Information Processing and Disaster Preparedness Evolution in Public Management."

* Natalie Lind, doctoral student in chemistry, "Uranium Catch and Release as a Strategy for Nuclear Fuel
Recycling."

* Susan Koerner, doctoral student in speech language pathology, "Tiered Virtual Coaching as a Professional
Development Model for Speech-Language Pathologists in AAC Intervention Strategies."

KU Medical Center participants

* Riley Kemna, doctoral student in neuroscience, "Energy Metabolism Impacts Alzheimer's Disease Pathology."

* Kelley Nelson-Strouts, doctoral student in speech-language-pathology, "Supporting Reading Through Developing
an Assessment of Meaningful Word Parts."

* Jordan Trant, doctoral student in cell biology and physiology, "A New Factor Involved in Autosomal Dominant
Polycystic Kidney Disease Progression."

* Deena Woodall, doctoral student in nursing, "Longitudinal Evaluation of Practice Readiness for a Rural Nurse
Residency Program Using an Interactive Computerized Decision Tool."

***

Original text here: https://news.ku.edu/news/article/ku-graduate-students-to-present-research-to-legislators-public-
at-state-capitol

Contact: Savannah Rattanavong, Office of the Provost, 785/864-6402, s.rattanavong@ku.edu

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8537417 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 20, 2024


  
