

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
     University of Texas-Austin: Clint Dawson and Stephen Vladeck Honored With President's Research Impact
                                                      Award




    University of Texas-Austin: Clint Dawson and Stephen Vladeck Honored
                    With President's Research Impact Award
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            April 11, 2024 Thursday 9:10 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 819 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: AUSTIN, Texas

Body


The University of Texas issued the following news release:

The creator of a code to predict hurricane storm surges and an expert on the federal courts and constitutional law
have been named the 2024 recipients of The University of Texas at Austin President's Research Impact Award.

Clint Dawson, the Cockrell Family Regents Chair in Engineering #2 and director of the Computational Hydraulics
Group at the Oden Institute, and Stephen Vladeck, the Charles Alan Wright Chair in Federal Courts at the School of
Law, were recently presented with the award. President Jay Hartzell established the President's Research Impact
Award in 2023 to recognize University researchers whose scholarly or creative endeavors have changed lives and
the way we look at and understand the world.

"Clint Dawson and Stephen Vladeck epitomize the different ways in which Longhorns are having a direct impact on
lives and communities across Texas and throughout the world and the basis of our mission to become the highest-
impact public research university," President Hartzell said. "Dozens of highly ranked programs, elite faculty and
students, and some of the most robust research funding in the world -- combined with the culture and economy of
Austin -- put us in an especially strong place to maximize the impact of what Longhorns learn and discover. We are
positioned to lead the next great discovery in AI, technology, life sciences and health care, energy and the
environment, and so many other disciplines."

Dawson, a computational engineer who joined UT in 1995, was instrumental in developing a simulation code that is
used worldwide in coastal ocean modeling and hurricane storm surge predictions. This helps state and local
government leaders know whether to evacuate neighborhoods and where to stage resources, saving lives and
property.

Dawson works closely with emergency response organizations across the state, and his research has influenced
the action plans for major storms that have hit Texas and Louisiana since 2005. Having access to the high-

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 2
      University of Texas-Austin: Clint Dawson and Stephen Vladeck Honored With President's Research Impact
                                                       Award

performance computing power at UT's Texas Advanced Computing Center has been critical to the success of his
research.

"The work Clint is engaged in with the SSPEED Center here in Houston is about potentially preventing the worst
environmental disaster in United States history and saving the lives of thousands of coastal residents," said Jim
Blackburn, co-director of the Severe Storm Prediction, Education and Evacuation from Disaster Center at Rice
University. "The ability to predict the surge arising from storms coming ashore at different locations and from
different directions at different magnitudes is critical to understanding both the need for action and what type of
action to design."

Vladeck, who joined the UT faculty in 2016, is the foremost legal scholar researching and raising awareness about
the U.S. Supreme Court's expansion of the "shadow docket" and the need for more transparency in rulings that
affect millions of Americans.

The Supreme Court resolves cases via two channels: the merits docket, where the justices hand down written
opinions, and everything else -- from cases that will and will not receive full merits consideration to time-sensitive
decisions such as death penalty appeals.

These latter decisions, which comprise as much as 99% of the court's rulings in any given year, are issued without
public hearings or full opinions, meaning there's little indication as to why the court has ruled the way it has, hence
the "shadow docket" moniker.

Vladeck's work, including his New York Times bestseller "The Shadow Docket," has illuminated how the Supreme
Court has increased the real-world effects of orders it hands down via the shadow docket -- often without the time-
sensitive justification. More fundamentally, it has reshaped how we understand the court as an institution.

"The justices are paying attention ... and perhaps most impressively, the justices seem to have changed their
practices in response to Professor Vladeck's criticism," said Leah Litman, professor of law at the University of
Michigan. "The court (has begun) to move some cases or requests that would have previously been handled on the
shadow docket onto the regular docket and decide them after full briefing and oral argument, sometimes on a more
expedited basis."

Up to four UT researchers who represent any discipline can be selected annually to receive the President's
Research Impact Award. Each recipient is honored with a $10,000 prize and medal to recognize research that has
an impact on society, the economy or the human imagination. The Office of the Vice President for Research,
Scholarship and Creative Endeavors oversees the award nomination and selection process.

***

Original text here: https://news.utexas.edu/2024/04/10/clint-dawson-and-stephen-vladeck-honored-with-presidents-
research-impact-award/

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8568772 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: April 11, 2024


  
