

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 9
                       COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024




     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024
                                               States News Service
                                               April 12, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 5224 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the office of House Majority Leader Steve Scalise:

Here's a recap of key moments from House Republican committees during the week:

Appropriations

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch held abudget hearingcalled "Fiscal Year
2025 Request for the Government Accountability Office, the Government Publishing Office, and the Congressional
Budget Office."The Subcommittee heard testimony from agency heads on their budget requests for this upcoming
fiscal year.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee onHomeland Security held abudget hearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025
Request For The Department Of Homeland Security."Committee Members pressed Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas
on the Administration's open-border policies. It's clear the Biden Administration has facilitated a crisis at the
southern border not secured it.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee onDefense held abudget hearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for
the United States Navy and Marine Corps."The Subcommittee invited Secretary of the Navy Carlos De Toro and
other leaders of the Navy to discuss ways to ensure our military has the resources it needs to defend our nation.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee onEnergy and Water Development and Related Agencies held
ahearingcalled "Member Day."To ensure that Members have an opportunity to provide input into the annual
appropriations process, the Committee held a Member Day hearing.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and
Related Agencies held abudget hearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the Department of
Education."Committee Members pressed Secretary Miguel Cardona on the Administration's student loan
cancellation efforts, with Congressman Chuck Edwards saying "forcing America's working class to pay for the
student loans of those who decide to go to college is unfair, plain and simple."

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 9
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee onthe Legislative Branch held abudget hearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025
Request for the United States Capitol Police."The Subcommittee invited Chief J. Thomas Manger to discuss ways
Congress can support the United States Capitol Police and ensure it has the resources to protect the Capitol,
Members, staff, and visitors.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee onDefense held abudget hearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for
the United States Army."The Subcommittee invited Secretary of the Army Christine Wormuth and other leaders of
the Army to discuss ways to ensure our military has the resources it needs to defend the nation.

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee onAgriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and
Related Agencies held abudget hearingcalled "Member Day."To ensure that Members have an opportunity to
provide input into the annual appropriations process, the Committee held a Member Day hearing.

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee onState, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs held abudget
hearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the United States Agency for International
Development."Subcommittee Chairman Mario Diaz-Balart invited Administrator Samantha Power to testify on
USAID's budget request for the upcoming fiscal year.

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee onHomeland Security held ahearingcalled "Member Day."To ensure that
Members have an opportunity to provide input into the annual appropriations process, the Committee held a
Member Day hearing.

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee onMilitary Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies held
abudget hearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for Navy and Marine Corps Military Construction and Family
Housing."The Subcommittee and senior members of our military discussed key investments in our military bases,
barracks, and other efforts.

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee onCommerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held abudget
hearingcalled "Fiscal Year 2025 Request for the Federal Bureau of Investigation."Members of the Subcommittee
used the hearing with Director Christopher Wray to focus attention on the southern border, with Congressman Mike
Garcia noting "the crisis at our southern border is a man-made problem, and the men responsible need to start
taking it seriously. Director Wray needs to get the president to secure the border now."

Armed Services

On Thursday, April 11, the House Armed Services Committee's Quality of Life Panel, led by Rep. Don Bacon (R-
NE), released itsreportand policy recommendations to improve the quality of life for servicemembers and their
families. No servicemember should ever struggle to feed their family, live in roach infested barracks, or miss work
due to lack of childcare. House Armed Services Committee Chairman Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL) made it clear that
the Panel's recommendations will serve as the foundation of the FY25 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).

On Wednesday, April 10, the Armed Services Committee held afull committee hearingon U.S. military posture and
national security challenges in Europe. In the two years since Putin launched his brutal invasion, President Biden's
half measures and hesitation regarding U.S. support for Ukraine has prolonged the war. Committee Members
pushed the administration on their plan for a Ukrainian victory and on their efforts to ensure all 32 NATO allies meet
the minimum 2% of GDP defense spending commitment. Members also discussed how Vladimir Putin winning
would embolden our adversaries from China, Iran to North Korea, while causing U.S. partners to question American
resolve and credibility.

On Wednesday, April 10,the Subcommittee on Cyber, Information Technologies, and Innovation held ahearingon
military operations in cyberspace and building cyber capabilities across the Department of Defense. In hisopening
statement, Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI) said,"Through this latest NDAA, we incorporated new requirements, reports,
and mandates into each of those same categories. And yet, here we are: there are still significant issues with our
force design, our civilian and military workforce issues remain as challenging as they have the past ten years, and

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 9
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024

several cyber incidents targeting the defense industrial base have demonstrated that we're as vulnerable now as
we were a decade ago."

On Thursday, April 11, the Armed Services Committeereceived testimonyfrom members of Congress on their
national defense priorities for the FY25 NDAA.

On Thursday, April 11,the Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces and the Subcommittee on
Readinessheld ajoint hearingfor TRANSCOM and MARAD to discuss the posture and readiness of the mobility
enterprise. In hisopening statement, Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS) said,"we cannot take our logistics capability for
granted. We must be prepared to meet the logistics demands of a conflict against peer competitors halfway around
the world."In hisopening statement, Rep. Mike Waltz (R-FL) said,"Effective planning for contested logistics
operations is critical for any near-peer conflict."

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee on Intelligence and Special Operations held ahearingon the U.S. defense
intelligence enterprise's posture and to examine current capabilities and efforts to counter the People's Republic of
China. In hisopening statement, Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI) said,"The Department's efforts are focused on China as
the priority of the National Defense Strategy, but once again, as we hold this hearing, the Russia-Ukraine conflict
has been raging for more than two years; North Korea continues to test nuclear missiles; on October 7, Hamas
conducted a surprise attack on Israel leading to a prolonged violent conflict that Iran has leveraged, using its
proxies to attack U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria while supporting the Houthi attacks on international shipping; and
threats from terrorist organizations are still persistent across the globe."

On Friday, April 12, the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces held ahearingcalled to review the FY25 budget request
for missile defense and missile defeat programs. In hisopening statement, Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO)
said,"Overall, I am concerned that these decisions simply accept too much risk, and that missile defense appears to
have become a bill-payer for other capabilities in this budget."

Budget

On Tuesday, April 9, Chairman Arrington penned anop-ed in the Daily Callercalling for the end of budget gimmicks
and bringing more transparency and accountability to the budget process.

Education and the Workforce

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Developmentheld ahearingcalled
"FAFSA Fail: Examining the Impact on Students, Families, and Schools."Republicans AND Democrats used the
hearing to get answers about Biden's unmitigated disaster: the FAFSA rollout. The FAFSA is designed to make
college accessible and affordable for students. Instead of doing its job (implementing a bipartisan law to simplify the
FAFSA process) the administration focused its time, energy, and resources on its illegal student loan scheme.
Biden's Education Department has made mistake after mistake and sent out erroneous FAFSA data; many of these
mistakes have no timeline for correction. The result? Forty percent of students' futures are now in FAFSA limbo due
to the administration's bungled rollout.

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee on Workforce Protections held ahearingcalled "Unlocking Opportunity:
Allowing Independent Contractors to Access Benefits."The dynamics of America's workforce are rapidly changing,
and it's critical that we keep up by developing innovative policies that support this evolving framework. With a
growing independent contractor population of over 73 million, it is increasingly important that these workers be able
to keep their preferred work arrangements while having access to benefits such as health care, employer-
sponsored retirement, and child care. Members had the opportunity to learn from experts about portable benefits
models and the flexibility that independent work provides.

Energy and Commerce

On Monday, April 8, the Subcommittee on Energy, Climate, and Grid Security held afield hearingin Port Arthur,
Texas, called "Biden's LNG Export Ban: How Rush-to-Green Politics Hurts Local Communities and U.S. Energy

                                                                                                           Page 4 of 9
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024

Security."Workers, families, and the people living in energy producing communities, like Port Arthur, benefit from
the energy industry through good paying jobs, tax revenues for school districts, and many other economic
opportunities. This hearing gave members an opportunity to hear firsthand from local leaders about the importance
of the LNG industry for their community and beyond.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on Health held ahearingcalled "Legislative Proposals to Support
Patient Access to Telehealth Services."The hearing focused on supporting patients' access to telehealth and
ensuring patients continue to have the choice whether to go to a doctor in person or use telehealth when
appropriate and more convenient for them.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on Energy, Climate, and Grid Security held ahearingcalled "American
Nuclear Energy Expansion: Spent Fuel Policy and Innovation."Members discussed ways to improve the
management of spent nuclear fuel as we work to unleash American nuclear energy.

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology held ahearingcalled "Where Are We
Now: Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996."Members discussed the future of Section 230 of
the Communications Decency Act and how we can ensure our children are safe and free speech is defended.

Financial Services

On Wednesday, April 10, the Committee on Financial Services, led by Chairman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), held
afull committee hearingtitled "Beyond Scope: How the SEC's Climate Rule Threatens American Markets"on the
Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) disastrous climate risk disclosure final rule.
Republicansexaminedthe numerous consequences of this fatally flawed rule which exceeds the agency's authority,
threatens our economy, and overwhelms investors with non-economic information.

On Thursday, April 11, Chairman McHenry and U.S. Representative Brittany Pettersen (D-CO)introducedthe
bipartisanRansomware and Financial Stability Act. This legislation will protect the critical financial infrastructure that
makes daily economic activity possible by deterring hackers and setting commonsense guide rails for financial
institutions to respond to ransomware attacks.

Foreign Affairs

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on Global Health, Global Human Rights and International
Organizationsheld ahearingcalled "The Chinese Communist Party's Malign Influence at the United Nations It's
Getting Worse."At the hearing, witnesses outlined how the CCP and malign actors abroad undermine global
agencies like the UN and international efforts to strengthen human rights or promote stability in favor of
authoritarianism and chaos.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Committee on Foreign Affairs held afull committee hearingcalled "USAID's Foreign
Policy and International Development Priorities in the Era of Great Power Competition."USAID Administrator
Samantha Power testified regarding her agency's priorities, while Republican members raised questions about the
agency's effectiveness; during his questioning, Chairman McCaul raised concerns about whether U.S. humanitarian
assistance to Afghanistan was being siphoned to the Taliban as the regime continues to abuse Afghans and
sideline women and girls.

Homeland Security

On Wednesday, April 10, the Committee on Homeland Security held afull committee markupof the following
legislation:

H.R. 5302, the Michel O. Maceda Memorial Act(Gonzalez-Colon)

H.R. 7404, the Subterranean Border Defense Act(Crane)

H.R. 7433, the Law Enforcement Support and Transnational Repression Hotline Act(D'Esposito)

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 9
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024

H.R. 7443, the Combating Transnational Repression Act of 2024(Pfluger)

H.R. 7439, the Strengthening State and Local Efforts to Combat Transnational Repression Act(Magaziner)

H.R. 7832, the Emerging Innovative Border Technologies Act(Correa)

The legislation advanced through this Committee honors fallen Air and Marine Operations agent Michel Maceda
(H.R. 5302), enhances border security (H.R. 7404, H.R. 7832), and counters transnational repression (H.R. 7443,
H.R. 7433, H.R. 7439).

House Administration

On Thursday, April 11, the Modernization Subcommittee held amarkupon the following legislation:

H.R. 7593, the Modernizing the Congressional Research Service's Access to Data Act (Bice)

H.R. 7592, To direct the Librarian of Congress to promote the more cost-effective, efficient, and expanded
availability of the Annotated Constitution and pocket-part supplements by replacing the hardbound versions with
digital versions (Bice)

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence

In a vote of 273 to 147, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 7888, theReforming Intelligence and Securing
America Act, which stops FBI querying abuses, prevents another Carter Page/Russia Hoax, and fixes and opens up
the FISA Court.

Chairman Turner spoke in favor of the legislation and highlighted how it would be the largest reform to the FBI and
FISA in a generation.

Judiciary

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee onCourts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet held ahearingcalled
"Artificial Intelligence and Intellectual Property: Part III IP Protection for AI-Assisted Inventions and Creative
Works"to examine the standards and policy considerations that should be applied to whether intellectual property
(IP) protection should be given to inventions (patents) or creative works (copyrights) generated with the assistance
of artificial intelligence (AI), including whether current and proposed rules on inventorship and authorship need to
be changed.

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee onthe Constitution and Limited Government held ahearingcalled "Fighting
for a Free Press: Protecting Journalists and their Sources"to examine the federal government's infringement on the
First Amendment's guarantee of freedom of the press, as well as federal shield law proposals.

Natural Resources

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held anoversight hearingtitled "Biden's
Border Crisis: Examining the Impacts of International Cartels Targeting Indian Country."Taking advantage of the
Biden administration's flawed border policies, criminal cartels blatantly target Indian Country, in states far from the
Southern border, such as Montana and Wyoming. The cartels single out these areas due to the higher prices illicit
drugs will command in these areas as compared to other parts of the U.S., the vast expanses of rural and often
unpatrolled lands, as well as ongoing jurisdictional concerns that complicate law enforcement responses. This
hearing was a chance for members to hear from tribal leaders, learn more about this ongoing crisis, and discuss
potential solutions to curb this catastrophe.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on Water, Wildlife and Fisheries held anoversight hearingtitled "The
National Wildlife Refuge System at Risk: Impacts of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's Proposed BIDEH Rule."On
Feb. 2, 2024, the USFWS issued a proposed rule that, if finalized, would make sweeping changes to the ability of

                                                                                                         Page 6 of 9
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024

refuge managers to utilize key management tools. The rule states that certain practices, such as native predator
control and cooperative agriculture, are prohibited unless refuge managers fully evaluate the potential
environmental effects of the management activity in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. This
hearing was an opportunity for members to hear from witnesses from the USFWS and conservation experts from
around the country to learn more about the proposed rule

On Thursday, April 11, the Subcommittee on Indian and Insular Affairs held anoversight hearingtitled "Energizing
the Territories: Promoting Affordable and Reliable Energy Sources for the U.S. Insular Areas."The Biden
administration's sole prioritization of renewable energy sources, along with restrictions on liquified natural gas
(LNG) and other baseload energy sources, have driven up utility costs for Americans across the states and
territories. Territory residents in particular feel the effects of these high costs, as they pay among the highest rates
for utilities in the U.S. while having some of the lowest income levels. This hearing was an opportunity for members
to hear from administration officials, representatives from Insular Areas, and energy policy experts to learn more on
how the prioritization on renewables is limiting the territories from accessing affordable and reliable energy.

Oversight and Accountability

On Wednesday, April 10, the Committee on Oversight and Accountability held afull committee markupon the
following legislation:

H.R. 7109, the Equal Representation Act (Edwards)

H.R. 7868, the FEHB Protection Act (Waltz)

H.R. 7524, the GSA Technology Accountability Act (Sessions)

H.R. 7887, the Allowing Contractors to Choose Employees for Select Skills (ACCESS) Act

H.R. 7867, the Renewing Efficiency in Government by Budgeting Act (Fallon)

H.R. 272, the Astronaut Safe Temporary Ride Options (ASTRO) Act (Babin)

H.R. 3019, the Federal Prison Oversight Act (McBath)

H.R. 7869, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officer Retirement Technical Corrections Act (Fitzpatrick)

Several postal naming measures.

On Thursday, April 11, the Committee on Oversight and Accountability held afull committee hearingtitled "Oversight
of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration."At the hearing, members exposed how the FDA under President Biden is
suffering from dysfunction and is failing to do the bare minimum to carry out its core mission. Congress must ensure
the FDA is prioritizing safety and effectiveness but also incentivizing innovation.

On Thursday, April 11, the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic sent aletterto Boston University
requesting Dr. Gerald Keusch's documents and communications with Dr. David Morens who served as former
Senior Scientific Advisor to Dr. Anthony Fauci and EcoHealth Alliance President Dr. Peter Daszak based on
information obtained from a whistleblower.

Rules

This week, the Rules Committee advanced measures to reform the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to prevent
abuses and protect the civil liberties of Americans (H.R. 7888), strengthen the ability of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection to intercept and catch these lawbreakers and keep our communities safe (H.R. 529), condemn President
Biden and his administration for their disastrous open border policies (H. Res. 1112), and make clear that the
House of Representatives opposes the Biden Administration pressuring Israel into a one-sided ceasefire (H. Res.
1117). Members reiterated how keeping Americans safe and secure is an essential part of the House Republican

                                                                                                      Page 7 of 9
                    COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024

Commitment to America and discussed how those objectives are met in these measures. Additionally, the Rules
Committee also welcomed a new Chairman: Congressman Michael Burgess, MD and a new member:
Congressman Austin Scott.

Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party

On Thursday, April 11, Chairman Mike Gallagher (R-WI) and Ranking Member Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL),
Chairman and Ranking Member of the Select Committee on the Strategic Competition Between the United States
and the Chinese Communist Party, sent a letter to Secretary Antony Blinken and Secretary Pete Buttigieg urging
the officials to be cautious when approving new flights between the United States and the People's Republic of
China, citing unfair market practices and security concerns.

Small Business

On Wednesday, April 10, the Committee on Small Business held afull committee hearingcalled "Tax Day: Exploring
the Adverse Effects of High Taxes and a Complex Tax Code."Members heard from both small business owners and
from a policy economist about tax policies which have been successful and helped small businesses to thrive and
grow. It was also highlighted how Biden's budget proposal would make life more difficult for small businesses,
raising their taxes while leaving them with persistent inflation and a heavy regulatory burden.

Transportation and Infrastructure

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency
Management held ahearingcalled "From Headquarters Building to Field Offices: Examining the FBI's Real Estate
Needs and Strategy."The hearing focused on the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) massive real estate
portfolio, consisting of a headquarters building in downtown Washington, D.C., 56 field offices, and more than 350
satellite offices. Members asked witnesses from the General Service Administration (GSA) and FBI about the FBI's
overall real estate strategy and how to save the taxpayers money without compromising the FBI's mission.

Veterans Affairs

On Tuesday, April 9, the Subcommittee on Technology Modernization held anoversight hearingtitled "VA Supply
Chain Modernization: Ready for Prime Time?"Witnesses from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) testified
about their forthcoming Supply Chain Modernization information technology project. The subcommittee determined
it was necessary to hold the hearing after VA refused to provide cost, schedule, and performance information about
the project for nearly a year. Chairman Rosendale expressed his frustration with the witnesses' continued
evasiveness and his concerns that the project is wildly ambitious and expensive, attempting to knit together an all-
encompassing system to manage every aspect of VA's supply chain from tongue depressors to X-ray machines,
printer paper, and headstones. Chairman Rosendale and Rep. Self questioned the witnesses about the risks of
being locked into one contractor with unclear requirements and insufficient buy-in from the VA employees who will
use the system. The witnesses assured the subcommittee members that VA's financial liability would initially be
limited, but the members were skeptical given VA's multi-billion dollar cost estimate for the project.

On Wednesday, April 10, the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs held alegislative
hearingon the following legislation:

H.R. 1083, the Caring for Survivors Act of 2023 (Hayes)

H.R. 2911, the Fairness for Servicemembers and their Families Act of 2023 (Strickland)

H.R. 3651, the Love Lives On Act of 2023 (Phillips)

H.R. 7100, the Prioritizing Veterans' Survivors Act (Ciscomani)

H.R. 7150, the Survivor Benefits Delivery Improvement Act of 2024 (Takano)

                                                                                                        Page 8 of 9
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024

H.R. 7777, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2024 (Luttrell)

H.R. 7793, the Veterans Appeals Options Expansion Act of 2024 (Bost)

H.R. 7816, the Clear Communication for Veterans Claims Act (Duarte)

H.R. 7883, the Toxic Exposures Examination Improvement Act (Self)

H.R. 7917, the Veterans Appeals Efficiency Act of 2024 (Bost)

H.R. 7919, the Veterans Claims Quality Improvement Act of 2024 (Luttrell)

Discussion Draft: To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve matters relating to medical examinations for
veterans disability compensation, and for other purposes.

These pieces of legislation aim to ensure that veterans receive faster and more accurate decisions on their claims
for V.A. benefits; to provide veterans with more choices to control how and when their claims are processed by the
V.A. Board of Veterans' Appeals; and to make the V.A. claims and appeals process more understandable for
veterans and their survivors by providing them with clearer updates and instructions. These bills would also
decrease the number of unnecessary disability compensation examinations that are causing unnecessary delays
for decisions on veterans' disability claims. Finally, these pieces of legislation would ensure that V.A. gives equal
attention to the needs of our nation's veterans as well as their survivors and would improve access to V.A. benefits
for veterans' spouses.

On Thursday, April 11, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs held anoversight hearingtitled "U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs Budget Request for Fiscal Years 2025 and 2026."

Secretary Denis McDonough presented the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) budget request and
representatives of Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, and Paralyzed Veterans of America
presented the VA Independent Budget. Chairman Bost expressed his concern that VA has not managed its budget
effectively. Specifically, the Department has requested a 9.8% increase for fiscal year 2025, most of which has
already been provided as advance appropriations, but is nonetheless making widespread cuts including hiring
restrictions, reducing roughly 10,000 positions the majority of which involve direct patient care, slashing information
technology investment by 99%, and undertaking only two major construction projects. Chairman Bost expressed his
skepticism about VA's budget not adding up. Secretary McDonough reassured Committee members that cuts to the
community care budget, which appear to exceed $10 billion, will be avoided by carrying unspent dollars forward.
Secretary McDonough attributed other cuts to the Fiscal Responsibility Act but declined to explain why this was the
case, given the fact that the law specifically exempted VA health care. Rep. Van Orden admonished the Secretary
and minority members of the Committee for alarmist, baseless rhetoric alleging VA funding reductions during last
year's budget season. Rep. Luttrell implored the Secretary to use the resources that Congress provides for veteran
suicide reduction in more innovative ways. Rep. Self asked the Secretary to update the Committee on VA's
implementation of the recent appropriations restriction on reporting veterans to the National Instant Criminal
Background Check System without a judicial determination; the Secretary explained that VA is following the law
prospectively but has not removed any veterans' names from the list. The representatives of the Independent
Budget described their priorities, which include funding levels for most VA programs exceeding VA's request.
Chairman Bost reminded the Secretary that VA has been late or incomplete in responding to over a dozen formal
requests from the Committee, including refusing to provide any documents regarding an internal investigation of a
VA attorney who made outrageous anti-Semitic comments on social media. VFW Legislative Director Patrick
Murray, DAV Deputy Legislative Director Shane Liermann, and PVA Senior Advisor Roscoe Butler expressed their
belief that greater investments in key areas like facilities and information technology can eventually reduce costs by
making VA more efficient, and early action to address veterans' unique medical needs can reduce more costly
interventions later. Chairman Bost thanked the Independent Budget representatives and asked for their help in
identifying waste and ineffective programs in VA.

Ways and Means

                                                                                                       Page 9 of 9
                     COMMITTEE CLIFF NOTES: WEEKLY RECAP WEEK OF APRIL 8, 2024

On Tuesday, April 9, the Subcommittee on Work and Welfare held afield hearingin Chicago, Illinois titled "The
Dignity of Work: Lifting Individuals Out of Poverty."The hearing made Congressional history as the first hearing held
in a homeless shelter by a House committee. A common theme among witness testimony was the power of work to
provide not just an income, but also dignity, purpose, and meaning. The nation's more than 80 federal welfare
programs, that collectively cost $1 trillion, largely ignore the importance of connecting those in need to meaningful
work, resulting in a social safety net that creates dependency, diminishes the human spirit, and traps people in
poverty. Connections to work help put Americans on track toward a better life.

Less than 3 percent of Americans with full-time jobs live in poverty.

36 percent ofnon-workingSNAP beneficiaries reported feeling worthless or hopeless, while only 22 percent
ofworkingSNAP recipients reported similar feelings.

One in three children who grow up in poverty will live in poverty as adults.

On Thursday, April 11, the Committee on Ways and Means held afull committee hearingcalled "Expanding on the
Success of the 2017 Tax Relief to Help Hardworking Americans."Ahead of the expiration of the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act at the end of 2025, the Ways and Means Committee is examining the policies and the record to determine how
best to build on its success. Under the Trump tax cuts, real median household income increased by $5,000 and two
years after the legislation was signed into law by President Trump, real wages rose by 4.9 percent. The economy
grew 1 percent faster than projected, and the trend of American companies leaving the United States to set up
operations and headquarters around the world came to an end. If the Trump tax cuts are not extended, working
Americans would face steep tax increases and the economy would suffer in the years to come:

Starting in 2026, the average family of four making $75,000 will see their taxes increase by $1,500 if Congress does
not take action.

Main Street businesses will face a 43.4 percent tax rate.

Working parents will suffer from a Child Tax Credit slashed in half.

More family farmers and ranchers will be hit by the death tax and forced to sell land and other assets to pay a big
tax bill.


Load-Date: April 15, 2024


  
