

                                                                                                              Page 1 of 2
                                 Faith melds with science at annual meeting of meteorologists




              Faith melds with science at annual meeting of meteorologists
                                                         Greenwire
                                                  February 1, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 Politico LLC All Rights Reserved

Section: TODAY'S STORIES; Vol. 10; No. 9
Length: 841 words

Body


By Rob Hotakainen Scientists at the 104th annual meeting of the American Meteorological Society in Baltimore took
time Wednesday to focus on their faith and spirituality, debating issues of love, beauty and God's will for them and
their work. They also had a chance to practice it, with two rooms reserved as quiet space to pray or meditate.
Speaking at a panel discussion sponsored by the society, Douglas Hilderbrand, 50, of Fairfax, Virginia, the National
Weather Service's preparedness and resilience program lead, said it can be easy to follow false idols while living
"within the D.C. bubble" but that he thinks differently after finding his faith later in life, while in his 40s. "I'm able to
bring in the real idol with my career in saving lives and helping communities be resilient to extreme weather," he
said. Hilderbrand added that there's a competing argument when someone claims that it was God's will for a person
to die in a tornado.

"It's also God's will that there are people who can keep you safe," he said. Amid an agenda jam-packed with
technical sessions on everything from climate disinformation to artificial intelligence, the panel discussion
provided participants with a chance to ponder the larger questions of life and argue that science isn't everything.
Dan Misleh, co-founder of the Catholic Climate Covenant in Washington, said that science may be "super-
important" but added: "There are some things that science still can't figure out, like love, beauty, suffering, meaning,
so those are the types of things the faith community brings. Those are deeper motivations." Mona Behl, associate
director of Georgia Sea Grant at the University of Georgia, said she first had to tackle the issue when she moved to
the United States in 2006 to pursue a doctorate degree in physical oceanography, leaving her home in northern
India. "I found it very difficult not to bring spirituality and talk about spirituality in the science that I do. ... Those
values are the guiding principle of my life and profession," she said. Debanjana Das, a climate scientist and
interdisciplinary performing artist at Howard University, said that science, nature and spirituality are "entangled
together," adding: "You can see there is a bigger designer, so for me the bigger designer is God. ... I am still in that
search process." 'Remember that we're here' The panel discussion, which focused on building partnerships
between faith and spiritual organizations and the "weather, water and climate enterprise," marked something of a
twist for the organization. It was organized by members of COSMOS, short for the Committee on Spirituality,
Multifaith Outreach and Science, a community of both AMS and and non-AMS members. Carlos Martinez, the
committee's chair, said the group did a similar session for the first time last year when the AMS met in Denver for its
annual meeting. Martinez, a climate scientist who was born in Puerto Rico, said he caught "the weather bug" after
his family moved to Dallas. After becoming a scientist, he said, he wanted to help bridge the large gap between
earth sciences and faith and spirituality. On his website, Martinez said that four in 10 scientists in the United States
believe in a higher power but that "there are virtually no formalized spaces for spiritual/faith-based Earth scientists

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                            Faith melds with science at annual meeting of meteorologists

and professionals." "I always wondered how could I leverage the love that I have with the atmosphere - our blue
skies, our waters, our air - with the love and passion that I have in wanting to be a good steward of our planet, a
fundamental pillar of my faith," he said at the panel discussion. Martinez made a point to say the group welcomes
atheists and agnostics to participate, adding: "I love what I get to do." He also said that the destruction caused by
weather is "very heavy" and that "it's hard not to be human in those moments as a scientist." "I find that very
motivating and a thread, if you will, between humanity and our scientific enterprise," Martinez said. Participants also
said there's a very practical argument to be made for getting more faith-based groups involved in the fight against
climate change, noting that churches have served as cooling centers during heat waves and done other important
work as well. Misleh said that faith-based organizations often respond to the call when a major disaster strikes and
are the last ones to leave. "[The Federal Emergency Management Agency] and Red Cross come in, but then
following them is the long-term recovery - that's the work of the faith community," he said. "So just remember that
we're here." Hilderbrand, who's also a former NWS forecaster, read an email he received from an immigrant in
central Florida who helped translate weather warnings into Portuguese and then shared them with other non-
English-speaking Brazilians at his church. He called it "a shining example" of an individual using a house of worship
to help save lives endangered by extreme weather. "This is what I think we can multiply by a thousandfold,"
Hilderbrand said.


Load-Date: February 29, 2024


  
