

                                                                                                Page 1 of 3
           DHS Secretary Mayorkas Issues Remarks at 92nd Winter Meeting of U.S. Conference of Mayors




   DHS Secretary Mayorkas Issues Remarks at 92nd Winter Meeting of U.S.
                         Conference of Mayors
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            January 19, 2024 Friday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1774 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued the following remarks on Jan. 18, 2024, by Secretary Alejandro
N. Mayorkas at the 92nd Winter Meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors:

***

If I talked about a small group of wealthy Georgia landowners who conspired to kidnap hundreds of people and
force them to dig onions with their bare hands for 12 or 15 hours a day without pay; if I said that these victims were
housed in unsanitary conditions, beaten, raped, murdered, and prevented from fleeing at gunpoint, all while the
perpetrators made millions off their inhumane scheme - you could be forgiven for assuming I was speaking of
slavery in the pre-Civil War South.

I am not. Such horrific, monstrous situations are still found in the darkest shadows of our country. What I just
described was a human and labor trafficking operation that we dismantled only two years ago, in a collaborative law
enforcement effort dubbed Operation Blue Onion. When I say "we," I mean the Department of Homeland Security's
human trafficking experts, researchers, investigators, and case workers - agents from Homeland Security
Investigations, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection,
working alongside and closely with five county Sheriffs' offices in the region, plus other state and federal partners.

I have spoken with many of you about the increasing frequency and gravity of extreme weather events. Last year, I
spoke to this Conference about the devastating tornado that struck Mayfield, Kentucky; about the 80 lives lost and
the $3.5 billion in damages that resulted; and about the work we performed, through FEMA, with Mayor O'Nan and
her community - a community of residents with great strength, resolve, and perseverance.

Many other natural disasters that have struck us since. This past August, wildfires ravaged more than 17,000 acres
on the island of Maui, killing 100 people, destroying 2,207 buildings, and causing $5.5 billion in damages, making it
the fifth-deadliest wildfire in our country's history. Working closely, every day, with Mayor Bissen, more than 1,000

                                                                                               Page 2 of 3
          DHS Secretary Mayorkas Issues Remarks at 92nd Winter Meeting of U.S. Conference of Mayors

FEMA personnel were on the ground supporting survivors in Maui, including members of its Disaster Survivor
Assistance teams. Hawaii received more than $200 million in federal funding, including more than $100 million in
direct assistance to survivors, and we made more than 50,000 meals, 75,000 liters of water, 5,000 cots, and 10,000
blankets and shelter supplies available to survivors. The work - by Mayor Bissen, local and state officials, and our
Department - continues. The removal of hazardous material and debris, the rebuilding of homes, offices, and lives -
one cannot do it alone. There is a lot more work to do, and we are doing it together.

A few days after Thanksgiving, local officials in Las Vegas received a tip - a particularly troubling tip in light of the
significant nationwide increase in threats against Jewish, Muslim, and Arab-American communities following
Hamas's terrorist attack against Israel on October 7. A 16-year-old boy had posted on social media that he would
be commencing lone wolf operations in Las Vegas, adding that he was a supporter of the Islamic State and would
make sure the Zionists in the city knew it. The City of Las Vegas and its Metropolitan Police Department asked the
Department of Homeland Security and our federal partners to immediately assist in their investigation, through the
local Southern Nevada Counterterrorism Fusion Center and Joint Terrorism Task Force.

Working together, it took the joint operation only hours to locate the suspect. A tactical team then took the suspect
into custody without incident. In his possession, they found components for building an improvised explosive device
and bomb making recipes, along with significant amounts of ISIS propaganda.

Human trafficking, extreme weather, domestic violent extremism - just three of the unique homeland security threats
that each demand our coordinated efforts.

Our country's ability to successfully mitigate every challenge to its safety and security has always required close
collaboration and good faith cooperation between all levels of government. This is particularly true with regard to
our nation's cities, where our partnership with many of you, your teams, and your local stakeholders has saved
lives, and has also saved time and money.

Early last year, in the midst of a particularly difficult surge in violent crime, local Baltimore officials asked Agents of
DHS's Homeland Security Investigations to partner with them on a crime suppression operation. For six weeks,
members of HSI's public safety unit worked arm-in-arm with the Baltimore Police Department's intelligence unit and
state officials, helping to make 45 criminal arrests on murder, rape, home invasion, theft, and other violent felony
charges, as well as significant seizures of fentanyl, heroin, crack cocaine, and illegal firearms. One of the men
arrested as part of the Operation was wanted for attempted murder after an alleged targeted shooting of a witness
set to testify in a separate violent crime case. The partnership between local and federal law enforcement was key
to Baltimore's almost 20% reduction in homicides and 9% reduction in non-fatal shootings last year.

So many of us have experienced the crippling effects of a cyberattack. Bad actors - criminals and adverse nation-
states alike - have increasingly targeted and damaged hospitals, electricity substations, pipelines, water treatment
facilities, and other elements of our nation's critical infrastructure. When malicious actors hacked the Cornelius,
North Carolina Police Department in July, DHS, through its Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency,
worked with local officials to flag unusual network activity, identify that a piece of malware was responsible, isolate
the virus, contain it before it could cause significant damage or pose a greater risk, and, ultimately, investigate its
origins to prevent other infrastructure from falling victim. In that case, our collaboration with local officials prevented
serious harm from ever occurring.

These stories, and many others like them across the country, demonstrate more than the enormous breadth,
diversity, and dynamic nature of the mission of the United States Department of Homeland Security. They
demonstrate the power of partnership and the critical need for it.

As mayors within counties and states, in states that form one nation, you know that no government can operate
effectively in a silo. And you know that, when we shun collaboration and reject coordination, and when we treat
each other as adversaries, not allies, the harmful results speak for themselves.

Nowhere is this more evident than in our efforts to tackle the significant challenges at our southern border, where
the level of migrant encounters is high. The collaboration and coordination that is needed is not only between

                                                                                              Page 3 of 3
         DHS Secretary Mayorkas Issues Remarks at 92nd Winter Meeting of U.S. Conference of Mayors

federal, state, and local officials. It is also between us and Congress, as we work to fix what everyone agrees is a
broken immigration system that has needed legislative repair for decades.

The needed collaboration and coordination is also between us and our international partners. What we are
experiencing at our southern border reflects a challenge that is not unique to our border, but is one that countries
throughout our region and throughout our Hemisphere are confronting. The regional challenge requires regional
solutions.

DHS was founded in the wake of 9/11 and charged with facilitating the inter- and intra-governmental cooperation
necessary to prevent another such terrorist attack against our homeland. In the 20 years since, the threat
environment that our country faces, and that our Department must confront, has evolved and expanded
dramatically: foreign terrorism, transnational criminal organizations, and lone offenders; the scourge of fentanyl and
other synthetic opioids that has been building for years; cybersecurity threats and internet-enabled crimes; the
increasing aggressiveness of adverse nation-states; human trafficking and online child sexual exploitation and
abuse - the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children uncovered 88 million images of exploited children
last year; the effects of climate change; significant global and Hemispheric migration to our border; and much more.

Our capabilities, our programs, and partnerships have evolved and expanded as well to meet this modern threat
environment. Our grant funding has increased to help your cities build and strengthen your terrorism prevention
capabilities; prevent, respond to, and recover from natural disasters; and keep faith-based institutions in your cities
safe. Our Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative, Cybersecurity Performance Goals, cybersecurity grant program, and
advisors present in each state have helped your cities and both your public and private institutions build
cybersecurity prevention, detection, and response protocols. Our Office of Intelligence and Analysis is sharing more
intelligence and information with your police and sheriffs departments, emergency responders, and fusion centers
to equip you with the data you need to be prepared for the threats we are seeing. Our use of new technologies,
including artificial intelligence, is enabling our task forces to detect more contraband, identify and rescue more
victims, and locate and apprehend more criminals.

These are just some examples of the many resources we have that are available to you, that we provide to, and
share with you.

In any and every form, our continued collaboration is fundamental to the security of our homeland and to our shared
mission of safety, security, stability, and prosperity for all. To borrow the wisdom of the great basketball coach Phil
Jackson, the strength of our nation comes from each individual community - and the strength of each community is
drawn from the nation. Cities - your cities - are the engines of the homeland security enterprise, and we have ample
strength, across every one of the most pressing homeland security challenges, that I urge of you to draw upon.

I am grateful to Mayor Schieve and the U.S. Conference of Mayors for convening all of us today and for helping to
facilitate the critical, continued partnership between the nation's cities and its federal government. Thank you for
your commitment to this work, and thank you for the honor of speaking with you today.

***

Original text here: https://www.dhs.gov/news/2024/01/18/secretary-mayorkas-delivers-remarks-92nd-winter-
meeting-us-conference-mayors

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8450818 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: January 19, 2024


  
