

                                                                                              Page 1 of 3
  U.S. Small Business Administration Announces 2024 National Small Business Week Co-Sponsors SCORE, the
                        Nation’s Largest Network of Volunteer Business Mentors, to....




      U.S. Small Business Administration Announces 2024 National Small
     Business Week Co-Sponsors; SCORE, the Nation’s Largest Network of
                   Volunteer Business Mentors, to Co-Host
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                             March 28, 2024 Thursday 2:40 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 833 words

Body

WASHINGTON, March 28, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Today, the U.S. Small Business Administration
announced the 2024 National Small Business Week (NSBW) co-sponsors and educational session topics for the
Virtual Summit, taking place April 30-May 1. This year’s NSBW Virtual Summit will feature educational workshops
presented by event cosponsors, access to federal resources, and networking opportunities. The two-day online
event is free of charge, but registration is required. To register, visit National Small Business Week Virtual Summit
registration.

“SBA’s National Small Business Week recognizes entrepreneurs and small businesses who are leading the way in
building our economy from the bottom up and middle out,” said Han Nguyen, Associate Administrator for the
Office of Communications and Public Liaison. “This celebration is made possible through the SBA’s partnership
with SCORE and the support of all of the SBA’s generous co-sponsors. With the right tools and support anyone can
achieve the American dream of business ownership, and the SBA is excited to connect with entrepreneurs
nationwide during this National Small Business Week and Virtual Summit.

“National Small Business Week is a valuable opportunity for entrepreneurs to hear from industry experts, connect
with other small business owners, and tap into expert advice from SCORE mentors,” said SCORE CEO Bridget
Weston. “We encourage entrepreneurs to take advantage of this free event and learn more about the resources
available to help their small businesses launch, grow, and thrive.”

The exciting two-day Virtual Summit includes sessions hosted on everything from writing your business plan to
using technology to elevate performance and are hosted by the following co-sponsors:

                                                                                              Page 2 of 3
  U.S. Small Business Administration Announces 2024 National Small Business Week Co-Sponsors SCORE, the
                        Nation’s Largest Network of Volunteer Business Mentors, to....

NSBW 2024 Co-Sponsors and Sessions:

Co-Host: SCORE
      •   How to Start a Food Truck Business: A Step-by-Step Guide

Platinum Level Sponsor:Visa USA Inc.
      •   Accelerate Business Growth with the Help of AI
      •   8 Practical Skills to Run a Successful Business

Gold Level Sponsor:T-Mobile USA, Inc.
      •   Securing Your Small Business in a Work-From-Anywhere World
      •   Small Business Strategies for Collaboration and Productivity

Silver Level Sponsors Amazon.com Services, LLC
      •   Leveraging E-Commerce to Scale Your Business

Block (formerly Square)
      •   Future of Commerce 2024

Chase for Business
      •   Navigating Your Cash Flow

Constant Contact, Inc.
      •   Building a Foundation for Online Marketing Success: Review, Plan, and Execute

Google, Inc.
      •   Unlock AI’s Potential for Your Small Business

NerdWallet
      •   How to Turn Your Side Hustle Into a Business & Securing Your First Loan

Bronze Level Sponsors:Worldpay from FIS (formerly Fidelity)Trinet (HR Solutions)ADP, Inc.Lockheed Martin

As the SBA continues to expand and leverage technology to reach the smallest of small businesses across
America, NSBW 2024 will be celebrated in person at our nation’s capital and throughout our Virtual Summit so all
entrepreneurs nationwide may participate.

---

Co-sponsorship Authorization # 24-1-C. SBA’s participation in this Cosponsored Activity is not an endorsement of
the views, opinions, products or services of any Cosponsor or other person or entity. All SBA programs and
services are extended to the public on a nondiscriminatory basis.

###

About National Small Business Week In the spirit of National Small Business Week, we celebrate the
unprecedented growth of entrepreneurship in the United States, marked by 16.5 million new business applications
since the Biden-Harris Administration took office. This surge highlights the dynamism and innovation that America’s
entrepreneurs bring to our local communities. The SBA will continue to champion the endeavors of small
businesses and the vital role they play in driving economic prosperity across the nation.

                                                                                              Page 3 of 3
  U.S. Small Business Administration Announces 2024 National Small Business Week Co-Sponsors SCORE, the
                        Nation’s Largest Network of Volunteer Business Mentors, to....

 About SCORE SCORE, the nation’s largest network of volunteer, expert business mentors, is dedicated to
helping small businesses get off the ground, grow, and achieve their goals. Since 1964, SCORE has provided
education and mentorship to more than 11 million entrepreneurs. SCORE is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization and
a resource partner of the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA).

About the U.S. Small Business Administration The U.S. Small Business Administration helps power the
American dream of business ownership. As the only go-to resource and voice for small businesses backed by the
strength of the federal government, the SBA empowers entrepreneurs and small business owners with the
resources and support they need to start, grow, expand their businesses, or recover from a declared disaster. It
delivers services through an extensive network of SBA field offices and partnerships with public and private
organizations. To learn more, visit www.sba.gov.
Christine Saah-Nazer U.S. Small Business Administration 202-756-0304 Christine.saahnazer@sba.gov   Han
Nguyen U.S. Small Business Administration 202-756-0304 han.nguyen@sba.gov   Rebecca Galanti U.S. Small
Business Administration 202-756-0304 rebecca.galanti@sba.gov



Load-Date: March 28, 2024


  
