

                                                                                                               Page 1 of 6
                   GOVERNOR HOCHUL IS A GUEST ON SPECTRUM NEWS' INSIDE CITY HALL




     GOVERNOR HOCHUL IS A GUEST ON SPECTRUM NEWS' INSIDE CITY
                              HALL
                                                    States News Service
                                                April 17, 2024 Wednesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 3537 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: ALBANY, NY

Body


The following information was released by the office of the Governor of New York:

Governor Hochul: "This is a great deal for New Yorkers. Everybody has their special interests. I have diametrically
opposed opinions on every part of this, and I'm the one who had to bring them together. But look at the results at
the end and we delivered for New Yorkers and people who want to be New Yorkers."

Hochul: "We have to do everything we can to start having stability and calm in this city. And let people not think that
there's chaos when it comes to the unlicensed cannabis stores or the retail theft."

A rush transcript of the Governor's remarks is available below:

Errol Louis, NY1: I want to start with this whole issue of these cyber attacks that apparently held up the completion
of the Budget. What are you hearing? Is this a ransomware attack? What happened back there?

Governor Hochul: Thanks for having me back on the show, Errol. Yeah, it was unexpected. I got a 4:30 a.m. call
that that the commission that's responsible for legislative bill drafting was under attack. I will say this: first of all, it's
under an active investigation, so we'll be disclosing as much as we can and when we're able to. This is very active.
There were impacts, but we're still very much functioning. So, we are moving through what we need to do to get to
the finish line.

I keep getting reports every hour on that progress. This is one of the reasons why I invested $600 million in
cybersecurity protections in my Budget and beefed up a whole unit in our state police. And I have one of the top
cybersecurity experts in the entire nation working for me. And we have a plan that the White House heralded as one
of the most exceptional strategic plans to deal with this. But it's like you never cover the planes that land. I cannot
tell you how many attacks thwarted. This is one where we'll explain more when we know more about it.

Errol Louis, NY1: When I looked into it, I did not realize that in 2022, there were over 25,000 cyber attack
complaints in New York everywhere, not just New York government, and estimated losses of $775 million. This is a
topic that Tom DiNapoli, the State Comptroller, put out in a report. And that same year, you appointed the state's
first chief cyber officer. Who was that person?

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 6
                 GOVERNOR HOCHUL IS A GUEST ON SPECTRUM NEWS' INSIDE CITY HALL

Governor Hochul: Colin Ahern. Oh, yes. He is the best. I literally get a report every single week on what has
happened in his operations, all the attacks, what company do you think they're coming from with their foreign
attacks. So, it's ongoing. But, again, you don't hear about all those ones that are thwarted, which is many. You can
always keep focusing on doing the best you can. Every once in a while, something gets through.

Errol Louis, NY1: In part for rumor control, since there are a lot of people who are concerned about this, can you
say anything about what systems were affected? Meaning, was sensitive personnel or personal financial data
involved?

Governor Hochul: This is, right now, confined to the Legislative Bill Drafting Commission. It's obviously actually run
by appointees from the Speaker and the Majority Leader, and it's an independent commission. To my knowledge,
that is the extent of the attack, but again, active investigation, so it really would be premature for you to say
anything conclusive at this time, just like any crime scene. This is the first hours of an evolving situation.

Errol Louis, NY1: We were told that there are backup systems meaning, a couple of generations old data systems
that are being brought in to serve the function that would have ordinarily gotten the bills done. As far as you know,
will this be a meaningful delay in getting the Budget finished?

Governor Hochul: Right now, we still expect the legislature to be able to vote as they're scheduled, probably
Thursday and Friday. Again, subject to this coming together, but that's why it's good to have redundant systems.

Errol Louis, NY1: Okay, so you mentioned the idea of voting on Thursday and Friday. Lawmakers said that they
were caught off guard by your announcement earlier this week. I don't know if that stagecraft or something they felt
like they needed to say, but there hasn't been a handshake. And certainly, I talked with the Majority Leader of both
the Senate and the Assembly in the last couple of days, and there were a number of details that they said are still
being negotiated. So, where are we?

Governor Hochul: Minor details. I think you'll understand why I was able to say what I did on Monday, in
announcing, again, conceptual agreement. I use that phrase, just like I did my last two Budgets. The last two
Budgets we did the exact same way. The night before, I had one of my many meetings with the two leaders, which
have been always respectful and cordial. I have to say, we really changed the culture in Albany. I said, is this the
handshake? Yes, this is the handshake. And I said, we'll be talking about it tomorrow.

Obviously, their members were waiting at the conference. And so, I think that's all inside baseball, because when
you look at what we end up announcing as our final Budget, you'll see it's the same as what I said on Monday.
Again, there's fine tuning to be done, so it was not a 100 percent done Budget when I announced it, but our staffs
continue to work through the days and nights. Are we on the one-yard line? I think we're pretty close.

Errol Louis, NY1: Okay. Are they giving you updates every ten minutes? Is your phone going off?

Governor Hochul: Between that and my cyber updates, it's what we do. It's what we do.

Errol Louis, NY1: Let me ask you about some of the contours of the Budget. You said that we're not going to see
income taxes raised, but the number of the overall Budget went up $4 billion compared to your first estimates.
Where and how did that revenue arrive? Like a lot of my viewers, we just paid our taxes the day before yesterday.
So, we're wondering how you know how much you have to spend.

Governor Hochul: That's a good question. When you look at the scope of this Budget, I will not directly quote
President Biden, but I'll come close. But this is a big deal a very big deal. Everything that got done the policy that
we announced that I wanted to get done my priorities in January are all in this Budget. And because there's so
much, I have to carry this cheat sheet of all the things we've got done. It goes on and on your fiscal response, no
income tax, reserve at 15 percent, the housing, the crime fighting, education, health care, the cost of living,
innovation with our Empire AI.

So, I don't know the likes of which we've seen this in any time in the recent history. We got that done, but you were
asking specifically, we had unanticipated revenues. You start out with the knowledge of what your revenues are in

                                                                                                           Page 3 of 6
                 GOVERNOR HOCHUL IS A GUEST ON SPECTRUM NEWS' INSIDE CITY HALL

November. You base your Budget off of that, but you're still waiting to find out what the end of year receipts are,
how well Wall Street did, how well bonuses did, and we were able to work with another $1.3 billion that we found in
unanticipated revenues, that gave us a little more leeway, but I also had a lot of cuts in there as well.

One thing about me as Governor, I have no problem questioning the way it's always been done, shaking up the
status quo, because we get caught in these ruts. Education funding why are we still funding schools on the same
formula we had in 2008? It doesn't account for population up or down. The population of students has gone down a
lot, and we're literally funding empty classrooms. At the same time, school districts have, above the law, allowed
reserves. Think about that fewer students reserves. Why do we have to, because the law says so, have to keep
funding the same way? So, I want to make sure we take care of high need schools. Those who need the help.
Those who have had an increase in students. Those who are dealing with the influx of migrant children and others.
That's just one example where we tackled the status quo and some really tough issues like the affordability crisis
and the shortage of housing, which I've been talking about for two years.

Errol Louis, NY1: Okay, yeah, I definitely want to get to those, but why include a non-fiscal matter like mayoral
control of the New York City schools in the Budget?

Governor Hochul: Well, everybody knows this is when I have the most leverage. The Governor puts out a Budget. I
put out as many policy ideas as we think we need to have. I work with my team literally starting this summer, I'll be
working on all the policies. And we work closely with the legislators we work with them on their ideas, our ideas.
And so, to me, it's a way to make a dramatic impact in a short time. And I guarantee this legislature, they work very
hard. They'll probably do what they did last year and still in the final week drop another 500 bills on my desk. That's
fine. They do that, but this is a chance for the Governor to have a place where I can get my priorities through. And
again, it's not always easy. When I talk about issues that people don't necessarily want to talk about, like crime, and

Errol Louis, NY1: Well, from your point of view, it might be a minor detail, but things like the contours or the limits of
mayoral control meaning, we've heard talk from lawmakers that they're still negotiating how to comply with their
class size mandates, and some other matters that matter a lot to lawmakers, matter a lot to a lot of parents here,
that's something that, as far as you're concerned, you got what you wanted, which is mayoral control, and what it
looks like is for somebody else to figure out?

Governor Hochul: No, not at all. I'm the one who signed into law the class size mandate. In my first nine months as
Governor, I did that. I want this enforced. So, when we talk about mayoral control, again, it ended up coming toward
the end of the process. Housing took up 95 percent of our efforts for a very long time because there was so much
we had to get done. I was not going to leave until we built more housing. We have a plan to do that. But mayoral
control, I think this city and the children that we serve needs to have stability.

So, mayoral control has not been done this way in the Budget before, but I wanted to stop the whole politicization of
this and make it a political football. And those who are fans of the Mayor would say yes. It's not about the
personalities of the leader, it's about what's the best system. People have a lot of faith in Chancellor Banks and the
results that he's delivered in such a short time.

So, to keep that going yes, we work with the Mayor's office, the teachers' union, the members of the legislature, the
advocates. I was doing a lot of convening and my staff we are around the clock on phone calls to say let's get
together and do this now. We should be close to a deal, but again, I never say anything is a done deal until it's
done. But that was important, and it does address the issue you just raised about class size enforcement.

Errol Louis, NY1: Sure. Let's talk about housing. Nearly all of the parties involved express a certain amount of
unhappiness. And of course, one definition of a decent compromise is that everybody's a little bit unhappy. Is that a
fair way to describe where we end up?

Governor Hochul: You know who's going to be happy? New Yorkers who finally have a home. And I protect tenant
rights more than they have been before this deal and if there was an opportunity to get Good Cause done, if there
was enough support in both houses to pass what the tenants had gone for at the beginning and they didn't do it.
They never landed on my desk. This was the vehicle to help our tenants against price gouging and for them to be

                                                                                                          Page 4 of 6
                 GOVERNOR HOCHUL IS A GUEST ON SPECTRUM NEWS' INSIDE CITY HALL

victimized by people that are taking advantage of them. But the most important thing I can do for tenants is to get
more for tenants. If I can get more people in the system, prices will come down. If we start building more it's basic
supply and demand. Build more housing, more supply, the prices come down.

That's what I've been focused on, so I'm real excited about it. This is a great deal for New Yorkers. Everybody has
their special interests. I have diametrically opposed opinions on every part of this, and I'm the one who had to bring
them together. Behind closed doors, I didn't publicly castigate anybody. It's not my style. But look at the results at
the end and we delivered for New Yorkers and people who want to be New Yorkers. All those young tech engineers
and people in cyber and AI, they want to come to New York, but they can't find a place to live.

Errol Louis, NY1: There was one detail, and I don't want to drag you into details because as you said you feel like
that can be negotiated elsewhere, but my understanding is that for a certain class of tenants, their rights will kick in
if their landlord has a portfolio. Meaning they own a lot of different buildings, which is not that easy for the average
New Yorker to discover.

Governor Hochul: No, absolutely. It's going to be on your lease. It'll be on your lease. There was concern about
protecting the smaller landlords who may only have one building that this could be otherwise, you'd have to have to
have lawyers on call, and they're not a big conglomerate, not a big operation.

And so, this is a great part of the negotiation with the two leaders. We know they're not wanting to get the smallest,
but if someone has a building of five units, but they have 20 of those buildings, that's a pretty good-sized landlord.
So, these are what kept us up late at night working out those kinds of deals. So, that's why the area was excluded.

Errol Louis, NY1: And on the other side of that same overall housing compromise 485x, I guess is what we're going
to all be talking about is the predominant tax incentive deal for developers. Did industry leaders give you
assurances that they're going to actually use this? The head of the real estate board in New York expressed some
doubts that there'd be enough production to really meet the need in New York.

Governor Hochul: I'll tell you what we did. Last year, the one big issue that industry talked about was or two years
ago was 421a, which is a tax incentive that's been on the books since the '70s to incentivize the production of
affordable units. A developer says I will do 25 percent affordable, keep it affordable, and the whole building gets a
tax break. So, that worked out well. The legislature let that lapse. I fought to get that to be extended for at least a
few more years. And what happened was there were countless projects that went to limbo. Housing that could have
been almost lived in by now. So, I extended that previous bill six years. That was the big issue last year. I did that
because I need more housing built. 485x was negotiated closely with the industry, but also labor, because I also
believe that the men and women of this city should have a shot at having a piece of government subsidized
building.

That's exactly what we did. We figured out zones. We worked out wages. We were into the nitty gritty in a way you
would never believe. But when industry says they're not thrilled with it. I think those people are happy with office
conversions, FAR, the height restrictions that stopped so many projects, the opportunity to have this extension for
six more years. So, I'm hearing from a lot of industries that say this is good for production. And there are, of course,
voices who are not thrilled. But you know what, I wasn't here to please people. I'm here to help New Yorkers get a
home.

Errol Louis, NY1: I got a few more. I'm going to skip around a little bit here. The SAFE for Kids Act this was one of
your priorities earlier in the year to try and put something in place to try and give parents some of the tools that they
need to keep their kids safe online. Is that included in the Budget?

Governor Hochul: Not this time and the only reason we took it out is because there's this agreement between the
administration and the houses, the legislature, to do something significant. Very much along the lines of what we
introduced and what Senator Gounardes and others are focused on. It is just so complicated when the oxygen was
all absorbed with housing for all this time. We could probably do it, but the Budget might not be done until July or
August. So, we agreed that we'll just pull it out, we'll work together because we have to get protections.

                                                                                                          Page 5 of 6
                 GOVERNOR HOCHUL IS A GUEST ON SPECTRUM NEWS' INSIDE CITY HALL

The Attorney General Tish James and I announced this with Senator Gounardes a while back that we want to get
this done. But you're into a new space here. This is uncharted territory. It has implications beyond our borders. But
we're going to do something, I feel confident this year.

Errol Louis, NY1: Very important, and I'll take it as good news that you need to use your maximum leverage to get
progress on that. The marijuana legalization, the 30-day review of how OCM has been run is going to end this
week. You said recently that you're not happy with the leadership over there. You called the rollout of legal
cannabis a, quote, "disaster." Should we expect personnel or structural changes at OCM?

Governor Hochul: Well, I'm still waiting for the report from the head of the Office of General Services, which is an
extraordinary operation enormous. So, we're waiting for Jeanette Moy's recommendations. We also had the option
as we set this reporting to move the 30 days or to have an extension of that, and she'll be giving me a report of it.

But let's talk about what we got done in the Budget the proliferation of illegal cannabis shops. And no one's been
more frustrated with this than Gale Brewer, my great friend, and I look forward to going up there and saying, with
Gale, what we got done. Because it is so unfair to those legal businesses that we're trying to start. And again, took
way too long, frustrated the heck out of me, we got 400 done in 2024 alone. So, we're already making progress.

You'll see this start rolling. But if you have these legal businesses starting off and they're being competed with by
hundreds of the illegal shops, that's not fair. So, we've worked with the Mayor's team and our team to structure a
way that we can involve NYPD as deputies with the Sheriff's Department and other penalties, increased criminal
penalties, the ability for localities to padlock and say, no, you cannot have this padlock here, you take it off and
you're back in business the next day.

So, this is going to calm things down somewhat, but I wouldn't expect to see dramatic change overnight. This has
been let go for too long because the original law from 2019 did not have any penalties or consequences, so I'm just
doing some cleanup here.

Errol Louis, NY1: Okay, good enough. And then I guess finally on retail theft: the enhanced penalties for those who
are engaged in violence against retail workers, the recalculation of what constitutes retail theft so that a lot of small
thefts will actually amount to a bigger penalty because it's actually a big theft if you think about it. Speaker Heastie
did not want to increase criminal penalties. He said he didn't think of it as a deterrent, it seemed to be something
that he didn't necessarily see eye to eye on. What changed his mind? How did that deal get done?

Governor Hochul: You have to ask him what changed his mind. But one thing as a leader, I do a lot of listening, and
I understood his concerns. And we have done a lot to ensure that people are protected, but also not to over
criminalize.

My view is that these are crimes that are being committed, you hurt someone who's on the front line. They are
vulnerable, these retail workers. They are the ones who showed up during the pandemic to make sure we could go
into our pharmacy and get our prescriptions and buy our baby food and diapers. So, they've been out there for us.
And they're so exposed to someone coming in, sweeping the shelves, punching them in the face on their way out
and laughing and knowing that there's no enhanced penalties. I said, no, we're going to protect these people.

So, we worked together, we found a good way to deal with this and move forward. Also increased penalties, more
security for the stores. Again, we have to do everything we can to start having stability and calm in this city. And let
people not think that there's chaos when it comes to the unlicensed cannabis stores or the retail theft. And the
penalties you mentioned, the accumulation of penalties these are people that are going from store to store to store,
maybe in a stolen vehicle, and they're now selling it online. So, we're also going after the online marketplace.

I am investing. I have hundreds of more State Police that been hired to deal with this for the SWAT team. We have
money to go to localities. So, I'm trying to hit this just like we did with gun violence. Gun violence is down 30 percent
from what it was a year ago.

Errol Louis, NY1: You're expecting a drop in retail theft when we meet again next year?

                                                                                                  Page 6 of 6
                GOVERNOR HOCHUL IS A GUEST ON SPECTRUM NEWS' INSIDE CITY HALL

Governor Hochul: I sure as heck hope so, but we need to put everything in place for localities to have the power
they need that is not there. That's what I'm excited about. This is a great Budget.

Errol Louis, NY1: Okay. Thanks very much, Governor. Good to see you.

Governor Hochul: Thank you.


Load-Date: April 18, 2024


  
