

                                                                                  Page 1 of 12
             POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET




POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF
                           THE DIET
                                                States News Service
                                             January 30, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 7015 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: TOKIO, Japan

Body


The following information was released by the office of the Prime Minister of Japan:

1. 2024 Noto Peninsula Earthquake

I offer my heartfelt prayers for the repose of all those who lost their precious lives in the 2024 Noto Peninsula
Earthquake that struck on New Years Day. I also extend my sympathies once again to the disaster victims who
have suffered harm or damage and are now living their lives in extremely challenging circumstances.

Various harsh conditions have emerged concurrently as a consequence of this earthquake disaster.

The peninsulas distinctive road situation resulted in disruption of the transportation network. Seabed upheaval and
damage caused by the tsunamis interrupted sea-based transport. Infrastructure including water supply, electricity,
and telecommunications all suffered serious damage. Small villages dotted with wooden homes vulnerable to
earthquakes became cut off from the outside. And local communities where more than 50 percent of the population
is elderly have been hard hit.

Amidst bad weather and numerous aftershocks, a great many people, including those from local governments in the
immediate area, the Self-Defense Forces (SDF), dispatched police and firefighter units from all around Japan,
support staff from local governments nationwide, and emergency response teams tackling medical care and
welfare, roads, electricity, and similar issues, have been working to save lives, rescue people, and restore the
infrastructure without pausing to rest or sleep, and despite the risk of structures collapsing. I wish to express my
profound appreciation to them for their efforts.

Even in the face of such trying circumstances, the most remarkable things are the orderly actions of the disaster
victims as well as those involved in providing support, and also the power of kizuna, the bonds of friendship. Thanks
to highly patient cooperation from all sides, placidity is gradually being restored to what had been staggeringly
chaotic conditions in the disasters immediate aftermath. As the saying about the area goes, The kind, gentle nature
of Noto extends even to the earth itself. I deeply respect the underlying strength of the people of Noto, who are kind
to outsiders and have an inner resilience.

                                                                                Page 2 of 12
           POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

Mindful of the needs and concerns of the disaster victims, the national and local governments will act fully in unison
as we continue our long-term efforts to provide reliable support for peoples daily lives and their occupations and
livelihoods. In addition, in order to protect the lives and health of the disaster victims, we will expand secondary
evacuations while dispelling the victims anxiety and concerns about the future.

We will carry out even extraordinary measures without hesitation. For example, we took the decision to revise the
fiscal 2024 draft budget that was just recently decided at the end of 2023 and doubled the general reserve fund to
one trillion yen. We are determined that we must not hesitate in our disaster responses because of budgetary
constraints. Although the phases of assistance will gradually change as we move forward, the Government will do
its utmost under the philosophy of doing everything it is possible to do in a seamless way.

Moreover, we have newly established the Headquarters for Supporting Recovery and Reconstruction from the 2024
Noto Peninsula Earthquake, which I am heading. We are determined to steadily implement our package of
measures to support the daily lives and the livelihoods of the disaster victims and work responsibly towards the
return of the disaster victims and the revitalization of the disaster-stricken area, including Noto.

(Remarks in the disaster area)

The other day while visiting the disaster area, I stopped in at evacuation centers in the cities of Wajima and Suzu.
People told me that they were anxious about a range of issues as they shoulder considerable hardships. I also
heard very valuable stories about support for disaster victims and reconstruction efforts.

At the same time, several new efforts have sprung up compared to disaster responses in the past, leaving a deep
impression on me.

With roads cut off and the airport also unfit for use, new public-private cooperation enabled a comprehensive
physical distribution system to get up and running. In a short period of time, a collaboration was underway whereby
SDF helicopters took charge of urban areas and airlifts from the sea, private-sector logistics providers meticulously
managed goods at cargo handling warehouses and conducted small-lot deliveries by truck, and SDF members
each carried 40 kilograms of relief supplies on their backs to transport them to the evacuation centers farther afield
that had been cut off from transportation.

Warm showers that can be used even without access to a running water supply have helped lessen evacuees
fatigue and are actively being turned to good account. The one who introduced those showers to the disaster zone
was a start-up company with the technology to cycle water for daily use through filtration and reuse it. The showers
are a reverse import from the companys operations in Africa and the Middle East. Trailers with toilets that can be
used even without access to electricity or running water have also arrived from all around the country.

Full-fledged disaster responses using drones are also ongoing, including drone delivery of medicine in cooperation
with SDF relief activities in villages cut off from the outside, aerial surveys of the disaster situation in locations
difficult to enter, and emergency recovery of wireless communication lines through drones providing radio relay.

The common thread running through these is the power of our bonds, a traditional strength of the Japanese people,
intensifying through its combination with new elements -- with digital fields, start-ups, new public-private
collaboration, or resource recycling -- to become a new strength for Japan.

2. Making 2024 a year for feeling achievements tangibly

This is true not only in the quake-stricken areas. New strengths have begun to take off in various areas of the
Japanese economy.

It has been two years and four months since I assumed office as prime minister. I will extricate Japan from the cost-
cutting economy that has lingered on for thirty years and, by working to resolve social issues through new kinds of
public-private cooperation, bring about a New Form of Capitalism driven by wage increases and investment and
move Japan significantly forward.

                                                                                 Page 3 of 12
            POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

Wage increases, capital investment, stock prices -- all have attained levels not seen for thirty years. Bright
indications that the Japanese economy will transition into a new stage are emerging everywhere.

Right now, we have a chance to wrest ourselves completely away from the deflation that has clung to the Japanese
economy for a long time and transition to a new kind of growth-oriented economy abounding in vibrancy.

We will seize this opportunity and not allow any turning back. This strong determination is being asked of politics.
Esteemed members of the Diet who gather in this chamber, let us work resolutely, devoting all our political might, to
make this year, 2024, a year in which we put all we have attained into concrete form and a year in which the public
feels results tangibly.

With responding to the earthquake, extricating ourselves fully from deflation, and dealing with a strained
international situation, Japan is now at a critical juncture, both domestically and internationally.

We must press forward decisively with our key policies.

We must properly steer the course of our diplomacy.

3. Political Reform Headquarters

That said, without political stability, there can be no pushing ahead with policies. And, without the trust of the public,
there can be no political stability.

That trust is now being shaken.

The political funding problem of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP)s policy groups has led the public to cast
doubting eyes our way, and as LDP President, I apologize most sincerely.

The LDP must return to the starting point of the founding of our party, that politics is for the people, and undergo
change. With this resolution and determination, we held intensive discussions within our Political Reform
Headquarters.

In the interim report that was agreed upon as the first step in restoring trust, we will first press forward with reforms
in the current system, including transparency in political funding and thoroughgoing compliance, and then in terms
of institutional reforms, we intend to implement legal measures, such as revisions to the Political Funds Control Act,
after engaging in sincere consultations with the various factions of each political party.

Also, having frankly acknowledged that there was no avoiding the LDPs policy groups being seen as so-called
factions, or groups existing for the sake of money and personnel, we reflected on the situation sincerely and took
the decision for our policy groups to part completely with both money and personnel matters.

As we work to restore trust in politics, I myself will stand at the fore and make certain that these changes are
executed. Political reform is a never-ending issue and in the future, we will continue to make further efforts towards
reform through the Political Reform Headquarters.

We will restore public trust to bring stability to politics and then implement our key policies.

4. Economy

In the policy speech I delivered at the Diet last October, I stated, The economy, the economy, and the economy. My
thinking has not changed even the slightest since then.

The greatest mission for the Kishida Administration is reviving the economy. Standing here before you, I pledge that
once again.

What is now being truly underscored as a matter of urgency is the economy, and above all, wage increases.

                                                                                Page 4 of 12
           POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

(Wage increases that keep pace with rising prices)

Last year, we achieved the highest level of wage increases in 30 years and the minimum wage also saw its
greatest-ever gain. Linking this trend into this year, we will also undertake a public sector wage increase by the
Government so that people can feel this trend tangibly.

We will without fail bring about wage increases that keep pace with rising prices for people working in a wide range
of workplaces in the medical and welfare sectors, who make up 14 percent of all employed persons.

We are also pursuing reforms to unit price setting and to the procurement system so that wage increases also
reliably take place within the procurement of public services, including public works and school meals.

Beyond that is the matter of wage hikes at small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and for part-time workers
and non-regular employees.

We have expanded and fortified the tax provisions for wage increases so that SMEs and medical corporations in
the red can also take advantage of it. We have also formulated robust guidelines made by institutions including the
Japan Fair Trade Commission. These guidelines support the smooth passing of increased labor costs at SMEs
through to product prices, and we are now working to publicize them as much as possible to promote compliance.

Disincentives for second earners to earn more than a certain amount of income annually, known as the annual
income barrier, have been a long-standing issue for people working part-time. We will expand our use of support
measures in order to eliminate this problem.

Moreover, to precipitate substantial wage hikes for truck drivers, who find it extremely difficult to pass price
increases through to clients, we will submit a bill advancing the introduction of appropriate freight rates.

In the construction industry as well, in order to secure funds for increasing wages, after the Government sets out a
guide to appropriate labor costs in advance, we will submit a bill encouraging subcontract agreements for individual
construction projects.

All of these will become powerful support that backs the raising of wages.

We will not let down our guard in defending peoples daily lives from rapid price increases.

We have taken measures to curb dramatic fluctuations in the price of gasoline, electricity, and natural gas in order
to flexibly hold in check the burden shouldered by households and communities. We are also steadily proceeding
with additional benefits of 70,000 yen per household for households exempt from resident taxes, including
pensioner households being dealt a blow by rising prices. We will forge ahead with benefits to a broader group of
low-income households, additional benefits to households raising children, and other forms of well-tailored support.

In addition, the main crux is to realize incomes that exceed the high cost of living. This year, we will bring about --
we must bring about -- incomes that surpass the high prices of goods, making use of every available means.

At the exchange of views held among Government, labor, and management, we made a vehement call for wage
hikes that surpassed last years, and there is a growing movement to respond positively to it in spring negotiations
between labor and management. The Government will make its utmost efforts to keep this momentum going.

In addition to the wage increases from the spring, from June, we will reduce income and resident taxes by 40,000
yen in total per person, supporting peoples disposable income. With the public and private sectors working in
concert, we will with certainty create circumstances in which wages rise and disposable income increases and, as
peoples own tangibly felt experiences build up, we will establish a forward-looking awareness in society as a whole
that it is only natural for wages to rise, rather than the consciousness oriented towards contraction that has lingered
for so many years.

                                                                                Page 5 of 12
           POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

We will also press forward with our investments in people in order to make sustainable wage increases possible.
We will advance our three-pronged set of labor market reforms steadily and at an early time and proceed with
preparing the domestic legal structure needed for expanding the safety net to encourage a wide range of work
styles and for strengthening our assistance for education and training and for reskilling.

(Bolstering earning capacity)

We will also take major steps forward in bolstering the earning capacity of companies that generate wage hikes.

Capital investment is expected to reach 100 trillion yen in nominal terms, the largest scale in history. Our package
of measures to promote domestic investment is designed to advance this further. With an eye on promoting future-
oriented strategic investments such as in hydrogen and semiconductors, we have created unprecedented tax
incentives and support measures for capital investment, including setting up tax deduction measures that address
not only initial investments but also costs during the production stage.

Middle-scale enterprises and SMEs drive local economies, and we will firmly support them through our assistance
measures for investment in automation and other such initiatives.

We will also place emphasis on strategically developing our infrastructure. Working towards reconstruction from the
earthquake, we will move ahead with the Hokuriku Shinkansen extension on March 16 as originally scheduled and
pursue innovations in physical distribution including not only preparing the environment for developing the Chuo
Maglev Shinkansen but also realizing at an early time a vision for an automated physical distribution system that
fully utilizes road space.

(Green transformation)

We are pushing forward with green transformation (GX), which reconciles decarbonization with economic growth.
We will accelerate investment within various fields in industry, daily life, and energy transition, making use of 20
trillion yen in GX Economy Transition Bonds, the first ever issued worldwide. We will also submit in the current Diet
session a bill to expand the introduction of hydrogen, carbon capture and storage, and offshore wind farming. In
addition, in the lead-up to the fully-fledged introduction of the carbon pricing system in fiscal 2026, we will proceed
with drafting legislation while giving careful consideration to obligating participation by large companies and to
establishing a certification system for individual companies' reduction targets. We will also continue to make use of
nuclear power generation as an effective means for decarbonization and stable supply, positioning safety as our
topmost priority.

We will accelerate efforts by the Asia Zero Emissions Community, which held its first summit-level meeting. Japan
will use its technological and financial strength to contribute to the various efforts being made by Asian nations, and
we will simultaneously bring Asias growth potential into Japan.

(Innovation and start-ups)

Science and technology are the key to converting the industrial structure, and they are the cornerstone for carving
out the future. In order to realize in true fashion in the Reiwa era a nation oriented towards science, technology, and
intellectual property creation, a goal we have aimed to achieve since 1995 on the basis of our Basic Law on
Science and Technology, we will draw up a national strategy containing a long-term vision.

As for artificial intelligence (AI), we will move forward with developing regulations and promoting its use in an
integrated manner. As one outcome of the Hiroshima AI Process established at last years G7 Hiroshima Summit,
we agreed upon a Comprehensive Policy Framework, the first international framework aimed at managing the risks
of generative AI. We will establish a research institute focused on AI safety evaluation methodologies.

With regard to the field of space as well, this month, Japans small demonstration craft landed on the surface of the
moon, a first for us. We will also advance our efforts in space in cooperation with the private sector, aiming for a
Japanese astronaut to land on the moon in the latter half of the 2020s under the Artemis program as the first non-
U.S. astronaut to do so.

                                                                                  Page 6 of 12
             POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

Taking a medium- to long-term view, we will undertake initiatives in biotechnology, quantum technology, and fusion
energy, among other technologies, while promoting investment and pursuing regulatory reforms. In addition, we will
work to strengthen international competitiveness and promote research and development within the
telecommunications industry.

We will accelerate the Five-Year Plan for Promoting Startups and support taking on new challenges. Funding for
startups is on a favorable upward trend, having over the last decade achieved roughly tenfold its previous level. We
will steadily promote human resource development, the provision of financing, and open innovation while expanding
our support for middle-scale enterprises highly oriented towards growth.

(Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai)

Having overcome COVID-19 and large-scale natural disasters, we will take an all Japan approach in working for the
success of Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai, which will be an opportunity to re-examine how we look at life and the way
society should be. We will continually monitor the appropriateness of the major expenses of the Expo, taking into
account knowledge of outside experts.

(An asset management-oriented nation)

We will put the Japanese peoples personal financial assets, which exceed 2,000 trillion yen, to good use in
increasing national income and in boosting earning capacity. At the beginning of 2024 we kicked off the dramatically
expanded new NISA system.

We aim to bring about a virtuous cycle in which household finances are reoriented towards investment and the
increase in corporate value leads to greater household income, giving rise to further investment and consumption.
In addition to making substantive corporate governance reforms, we will work to improve the operational capacity of
the asset management industry and asset owners and strengthen Japans investment chain.

(Economic and fiscal management)

We will have an increase in income take place first through our efforts to increase wages and then fully extricate
ourselves from deflation, continuing our reform of expenditures all the while. Proceeding in this manner will help
keep in check increases in the national burden ratio resulting from the aging of our population and other factors and
also contribute to putting public finances on a sound footing. Since the economy is the foundation of public finance,
first we will put the economy right again and then we will move steadily forward in attaining fiscal soundness.

5. Society

Even as the Japanese economys greatest strategic issue is getting fully extricated from deflation, the greatest
strategic challenge for Japanese society is the issue of the declining birthrate.

Giving due consideration to the profound sense of urgency underpinning the proposal drafted by the Population
Strategy Council, a private-sector group of concerned leaders, we will do our utmost, espousing the approach of the
Government doing everything it is able to do now.

(Bringing about an inclusive society)

The first thing is policies for children and child-rearing.

Through a fundamental strengthening of our policies for children and child-rearing at an unprecedented scale,
Japans family-related expenditures per child will reach the level of Sweden, the top OECD country, at 16 percent of
GDP. We will press forward with this in a groundbreaking manner.

To secure funding, we will at first as a general principle secure funding by conducting a thoroughgoing reform of our
expenditures. Spending reforms and wage increases will have the effect of lowering the burden of social insurance

                                                                                 Page 7 of 12
            POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

in real terms. We will build our support fund system within that scope, thereby avoiding any additional financial
burdens for the public in real terms.

This year, we will at last enter a stage in which policies are implemented in a fully-fledged manner, including
radically expanding the child allowance, reducing the financial burden incurred in higher education, improving the
staffing criteria for day care centers for the first time in 76 years, and expanding the additional childcare allowance.

Within this Diet session we will submit the necessary bills and, with a sense of speed, transition into
implementation.

But it is not simply a matter of drawing up systems, policies, and measures. As the other side of the coin, we will
also press forward with efforts across society as a whole to increase momentum for cheering on children and
households raising children.

Sex offences and sexual violence perpetrated against children are grave violations of human rights and must never
occur. We will endeavor to submit bills within the current Diet session to establish the legal system for preventing
sexual assault against children. Accordingly, we will push forward in our considerations with a view to making a
more effective system.

In addition, as we work for the revival of high-quality public education and for the internationalization of education,
we will also make efforts to improve quality by reviewing the treatment of teachers.

We will exert every effort to support womens active participation in society. With various efforts already underway,
our 53.2 percent employment rate for women is the highest level ever. In particular, the rate for women from 25 to
39 years of age surpassed 80 percent for the first time. In order to propel this further forward, we will support the
hiring and fostering of human resources as we work towards our target for the proportion of female board members.
We will also enhance our support policies so that both men and women are able to strike a good balance between
work and childrearing.

We will also actively deal with dementia, an urgent issue for the elderly and their family members. The Basic Act on
Dementia, which incorporated the views of those concerned with the issue, entered into force this month. We will
utilize the outcomes of discussions by the Council for the Realization of an Aging Society That Addresses
Dementia, which drew on participation from dementia sufferers themselves and family members of dementia
patients, in setting out our Basic Plan and in our efforts to address issues arising in the daily lives of the elderly,
including elderly people living alone.

Through these efforts, we will bring about an inclusive, cohesive society in which all people, regardless of their age
or whether or not they have a disability, are able to feel their purpose in life and in which diversity is respected
without anyones dignity being compromised.

(Digital administrative and fiscal reform)

In order to address the increasingly diverse and complex needs of the public while also adapting to the decline in
the population, what is required is digital administrative and fiscal reform. By leveraging the power of digitalization,
even as the labor shortage becomes more acute, we will create an environment in which it is possible to maintain
administrative services without increasing the number of public servants. Alongside this, we will conduct a review of
our funds and promote putting information on government-funded projects into forms that can be easily seen and
assessed by the public.

Furthermore, based on issues identified from the perspective of the users, we will implement measures to resolve
issues by combining digitalization and regulatory reforms. In doing so, we will work to thoroughly enhance the
convenience of My Number cards, which are the passport of the digital society.

With regard to the issue of ride-sharing services in particular, we will hammer out a concrete form for the system
and provide support to make it possible to implement from April new transportation services using privately-owned

                                                                                 Page 8 of 12
            POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

vehicles and ordinary drivers in local areas. While examining the effects of implementing these measures, we will
continue towards June our discussions on the legal system related to ride-sharing services.

With regard to autonomous driving as well, within fiscal 2024, we will double to more than 20 the number of projects
with year-round operations conducted on general roads leading to social implementation, and we will aim to have
plans and actual operations underway in every prefecture.

6. Regional vitalization

Without regional vitalization, there will be no development of Japan. New efforts are now underway in our local
areas on the basis of the power of kizuna, the bonds of friendship. We must provide support for the development of
tourism, agriculture, and other key industries and fully protect local areas where people can live their lives with a
sense of security.

(Tourism and agriculture)

In order to support the growth of our local regions, we aim to have 60 million foreign tourists visit Japan and 15
trillion yen in tourism consumption in 2030.Moving towards this goal, we will work to prevent, before it happens,
overtourism resulting from an uneven distribution of tourists to only a portion of locales at particular times of year.
To ensure that the benefits of tourism spread to every corner of the country, we will also vigorously promote adding
high amounts of value to tourist sites and the tourism industry and attracting tourists to Japans local regions.

Agriculture supported by local regions is the foundation of the nation. We will address head-on the social issues,
both domestic and international, that Japans agriculture faces, such as global volatility in supply and demand for
food and fertilizers, environmental issues, and Japans sharp decline in the population and insufficient labor force.
We will conduct a fundamental review of agricultural policy to ensure that overcoming these challenges leads to the
growth of local areas.

Towards that end, we will submit during this Diet session a bill to amend the Basic Act on Food, Agriculture and
Rural Areas, which is positioned as the Constitution of agricultural policy. This will be the first full-scale revision of
this Act in the quarter-century since its enactment.

Furthermore, in order to systematically promote the enhancement of food security in times of uncertainty, the
securing of a total amount of land for agriculture and ensuring its proper and effective use, stabilization of the
procurement of food raw materials, and the encouragement of smart agriculture, we will also submit bills related to
these matters in this session of the Diet.

Alongside these, we will promote the transition to environmentally friendly and sustainable agriculture, forestry,
fishery, and food industries, including green agriculture, sustainable forestry, conversion to aquaculture, and other
initiatives. In addition, with a view to maintaining the domestic production base, we will further promote the export of
agricultural, forestry, and fishery products.

The foundation of agricultural policy is found in the field. We will stay faithful to the needs and concerns of those
who toil away day after day running their operations and develop agricultural policy that supports their forward-
looking efforts.

(Safety and security; the reconstruction of Fukushima)

We will fully defend safety and security beginning in ordinary, unexceptional times. Given that natural disasters are
becoming increasingly intense, including the Noto Peninsula Earthquake, we are continuously advancing our
measures in both hard and soft aspects to prevent and reduce disasters and enhance national resilience, including
measures that address river basin management and aging infrastructure.

In addition, working towards sustainable infrastructure development in local areas, we will promote integrated water
management in river basins through public-private cooperation and also promote the granting of small-scale

                                                                                Page 9 of 12
           POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

concessions in order to actively make use of vacant houses and idle real estate. Moreover, we will advance the
recycling of resources and strengthen resource circulation within local areas.

The reconstruction of Fukushima is one of my administrations highest priority issues. The Government will make all-
out efforts to restore peoples daily lives and livelihoods.To address China and others suspending imports of
Japanese marine products in response to the discharge of ALPS-treated water, the Government will protect
Japanese fisheries by calling for the immediate repeal of such measures and by steadily promoting the expansion
of domestic demand for marine products affected by this situation, the cultivation of new export markets, and the
strengthening of domestic processing systems.

In response to the collision accident at the beginning of the year at Haneda Airport, to ensure this kind of accident
does not happen again, we will swiftly take measures in both hard and soft aspects to prevent reoccurrence and,
taking into account the Japan Transport Safety Boards determination of the cause, adopt fundamental measures to
enhance both safety and peace of mind in aviation.

7. Diplomacy and Security

The degree of tension in the international community is increasing further. Besides aggression against Ukraine and
the Middle East situation, there are a number of important national elections that will sway the direction of the
direction the globe takes in the future, including the U.S. presidential election. Taking the G7 Hiroshima Summit, the
Japan-U.S.-Republic of Korea (ROK) Summit at Camp David, and various other diplomatic occasions we have had
until now, Japan will give shape to them and lead the international community towards global stability and prosperity
through an approach that is quintessentially Japanese.

(Deepening relations with other nations)

First and foremost, our cooperation with our allies and with like-minded countries is critical. Through opportunities
such as my official visit to the United States, planned for early April, I will further expand and deepen Japan-U.S.
relations, which are the cornerstone of Japan's diplomacy. By further reinforcing the Japan-U.S. Alliance, we will
make Japans security absolutely unfailing while contributing to regional peace and stability. Moreover, we will use
various channels to reinforce cooperation between Japan and the United States in the area of economic security,
including cooperation to enhance the resilience of our supply chains and cooperation regarding semiconductors.

Based on the outcomes of the ASEAN-Japan Commemorative Summit for the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan
Friendship and Cooperation held in Tokyo last month and making use of Japan-Australia-India-U.S. meetings, we
will strengthen our partnerships with relevant countries and further advance our cooperation to promote a Free and
Open Indo-Pacific based on the rule of law.

With the ROK, an important neighboring country with which we should cooperate in our responses to international
issues and other areas, taking my relationship of trust with President Yoon as the cornerstone, I will further expand
and deepen our wide-ranging cooperation while also advancing the trilateral strategic partnership among Japan, the
United States, and the ROK as well as a trilateral framework among Japan, China and the ROK.

With China, we have engaged in a significant amount of communication at all levels, including notably the summit
meeting I held this past November with President Xi Jinping. We will continue to pursue comprehensively a
"mutually beneficial relationship based on common strategic interests." At the same time, Japan will say to China
the things that need to be said, including regarding any unilateral attempt to change the status quo by force in the
East China Sea or South China Sea, and, strongly urging China to act responsibly, we will engage in dialogue,
including regarding outstanding issues of concern, and build through efforts on the part of both Japan and China a
constructive and stable Japan-China relationship, in which we cooperate on common issues.

We will continue to press forward vigorously in our sanctions against Russia as well as our assistance to Ukraine. In
February in Tokyo, we plan to hold a Japan-Ukraine Conference for Promotion of Economic Reconstruction.
Notwithstanding the acutely challenging circumstances enveloping Japan-Russia relations, Japan maintains its
policy of resolving the territorial issue and concluding a peace treaty.

                                                                               Page 10 of 12
           POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

(The abduction issue)

The abduction of Japanese nationals, an issue whose resolution has time constraints, is a human rights issue about
which we cannot let our mindfulness dwindle for even a moment, as the families of the victims continue to age. The
abduction issue is one of the highest priority issues for my administration. In addition, nuclear and missile
development by North Korea is totally unacceptable. In order to realize the return of all the abductees to Japan at
the earliest possible date and raise Japan-North Korea relations to a new stage, and in order to resolve outstanding
issues of concern with North Korea in accordance with the Japan-DPRK Pyongyang Declaration, we will advance
high-level consultations that report directly to me, with a view to realizing summit-level talks with Chairman Kim
Jong-un.

(Cooperation with the Global South)

At last years Hiroshima Summit, we succeeded in reaching an aligned recognition of the importance of the rule of
law, respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, and other such principles in a venue where leaders from
countries outside the G7 also met with us under the same roof. Taking this outcome as our foundation, we will
uphold and reinforce the free and open international order based on the rule of law and, leveraging the opportunity
of the G20 summit in Brazil and other diplomatic occasions, deepen our cooperation with the Global South and lead
the international community away from division and confrontation towards cooperation. Also, with regard to the food
crisis, climate change, infectious diseases, and various other global challenges, while drawing upon the strengths
that are unique to Japan, we will promote diplomacy and international cooperation that place human dignity at the
very center.

(A world without nuclear weapons)

Russias threats of nuclear weapon use and North Koreas nuclear and missile development and other issues have
increased the severity of the situation surrounding nuclear disarmament. However, precisely because we find
ourselves within such a context, we will, taking the G7 Leaders Hiroshima Vision on Nuclear Disarmament issued
last year as a solid platform and also embracing the wisdom of the International Group of Eminent Persons, carry
out efforts under the Hiroshima Action Plan one by one and continue and strengthen our realistic and practical
measures to realize a world without nuclear weapons.

(Fundamentally reinforcing Japans defense capabilities)

Japan is now right in the middle of the most severe security environment of the post-war era. In light of that, we will
steadily bring concrete shape to the fundamental reinforcement of Japans defense capabilities and, moreover, work
to improve the living and working environments and the treatment of the members of our Self-Defense Forces.

In addition, the Japan-U.S. Alliance, which takes the Japan-US Security Arrangements as its cornerstone, functions
as "public goods" for global stability and prosperity, and we will further reinforce the deterrence and the response
capabilities of our Alliance.

We will continue to work to lessen the impact of U.S. military bases. Aiming to realize the total return of Marine
Corps Air Station Futenma at the earliest possible time, we will proceed with construction for the relocation to
Henoko. We will also continue to provide assistance to strengthen the Okinawan economy.

With regard to securing the financial resources necessary to fundamentally reinforce Japans defense capabilities,
we will clearly lay out the direction we will follow and then undertake it, based on the framework decided upon by
the Cabinet at the end of 2022.

Alongside the reinforcement of Japans defense capabilities and our diplomacy and security, a fundamental
strengthening of Japans economic security is a matter of urgency. We will enhance our security clearances and our
cyber security.

Bolstering Japans cyber response capability is an issue that is becoming increasingly urgent. We will lay out a bill to
prepare the relevant domestic legal structure at the earliest possible time and accelerate discussions on it.

                                                                                Page 11 of 12
            POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET

8. Constitutional reform and Imperial succession

We will also work to tackle other issues that cannot be postponed.

First among these is constitutional reform. I welcome the active discussions that have been held in the Deliberative
Councils on the Constitution in both the House of Representatives and the House of Councillors. I look forward to
even more proactive discussions taking place with a view to releasing a Diet proposal, so that the public may
exercise their judgment regarding it. In addition, speaking as the president of the LDP, I remain unchanging in my
intention to make constitutional revision a reality during my tenure as president, and towards that end, I intend to do
everything in my power to advance discussions on the matter. This year, we will draw up explicit draft articles and
accelerate nonpartisan discussions.

With regard to addressing stable Imperial succession and related matters, the Government has compiled specific
steps to be taken to ensure the number of members of the Imperial Family and reported those measures to the
Diet. I look forward to the Diet engaging in vigorous discussions so that the consensus of the legislature can be
compiled as soon as possible.

9. Conclusion

In the Kumamoto earthquakes of 2016, a large number of valuable ceramic creations broke, and in response it was
wajima-nuri lacquerware artisans who lent a hand.

Collecting the fragments of the broken ceramics, the craftsmen used the wajima-nuri lacquerware technique of
mixing lacquer with gold to restore the items superbly. The new pieces of craftsmanship integrating the works of
disaster-stricken Kumamoto and the traditional techniques of wajima-nuri lacquerware moved people as beautiful
symbols of reconstruction. It was a moment when the power of kizuna -- the bonds of friendship -- in thinking about
the disaster area and the ideas of young people converged with support raised through crowdfunding, giving rise to
a radiant new strength for Japan.

The movement from Kumamoto to reciprocate to Ishikawa the warm support from eight years ago has spread,
including among young people. Precisely because it is the very same kind of disaster-affected area, it is possible to
provide responses that are well-matched to the feelings of the local people, in the forms of staff dispatched to day
care centers, people taking care of administrative tasks associated with donations, and assistance for disaster-
affected rail lines, among other areas.

Traditions and youth; private-sector companies and public-sector agencies; local communities and start-ups. Even
in the reconstruction from the earthquake disaster, these new strengths that arose through these kinds of
combinations have all become a driving force for restoring Noto.

Our new strengths are not limited to disaster-affected areas. We are reminded that new strengths are cropping up
in a wide variety of settings. It may be young people imbued from the very start with the ambition to actively make
their mark internationally, or attempts to resolve local issues through new technologies, or, indeed, places where
people are, one by one, working steadily away within their own areas of responsibility. We will link these endeavors
together and combine them with new elements such as digital or green fields, public-private cooperation, and start-
ups. I am confident that by doing so, they will become strengths we can count on with certainty as we move towards
a Japan where tomorrow is better than today.

We will not fail to seize this opportunity to change Japan.

Although the ruling and opposition parties each have their own positions, let us, together with each member of the
Diet, do our utmost for the sake of the next generation.

I ask once again for the understanding and cooperation of my fellow citizens.

Thank you very much for your kind attention.

                                                                               Page 12 of 12
           POLICY SPEECH BY PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA TO THE 213TH SESSION OF THE DIET


Load-Date: February 5, 2024


  
