

                                                                                         Page 1 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)




Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific
              Command Commander Aquilino (Part 1 of 2)
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            April 20, 2024 Saturday 8:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 10765 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Senate Armed Services Committee issued the following testimony by Adm. John C. Aquilino, commander of
the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command, involving a hearing on March 21, 2024, entitled "The Posture of United States
Indo-Pacific Command and United States Forces Korea in Review of the Defense Authorization Request for Fiscal
Year 2025 and the Future Years Defense Program":

***

Chairman Reed, Ranking Member Wicker, and distinguished members of the Committee, thank you for the
opportunity to appear before you to discuss the Indo-Pacific Region. This will be the last time I testify as the
Commander of U.S. Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM). I want to thank my wife, Laura, and the rest of our
family for their support. After 40 years of service, I can say unequivocally that the sacrifice service members make
for our nation is a family affair, and I could not have done it without mine. These last three years have been the
honor of a lifetime. Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, Guardians, Coast Guardsmen, and civilian warriors work
tirelessly alongside our allies and partners daily to keep our nation safe while ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific.

I also thank Congress for your support, especially in establishing the Pacific Deterrence Initiative (PDI). The
American people should know that your efforts to focus our country's resources on addressing the most pressing
national security challenge our nation has ever faced are making a difference, but we have much more to do. The
U.S. cannot spend its way to a position of preeminence as our economic and technological advantages over the
PRC continue to narrow. While modernization of the force and the development of new concepts are essential to
our ability to deter, we need to move at the speed and pace required to address the rapidly evolving security
environment.

The complexity of the threats we face requires the U.S. to mobilize the whole of government and use all elements of
national power to counter revisionist powers and their proxies committed to overturning the rules-based order for

                                                                                         Page 2 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

the benefit of themselves and at the expense of everyone else. However, we must recognize that the most
dangerous national security challenges are evolving faster than our current government processes allow us to
address them. Each of our three major state threats in the USINDOPACOM area of responsibility (AOR) - the
People's Republic of China (PRC), Russia, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) - are taking
unprecedented actions that challenge international norms and advance authoritarianism. These adversarial regimes
are increasingly interconnected, which is evident in Xi and Putin's declaration of a "no limits friendship" as well as
Kim Jong Un's materiel deliveries to Putin in support of the illegal invasion of Ukraine. Nevertheless, the PRC is the
only country that has the capability, capacity, and intent to upend the international order. Even amidst slowing
economic growth, the PRC continues its aggressive military buildup, modernization, and coercive gray-zone
operations. All indications point to the PLA meeting President Xi Jinping's directive to be ready to invade Taiwan by
2027. Furthermore, the PLA's actions indicate their ability to meet Xi's preferred timeline to unify Taiwan with
mainland China by force if directed.

When I became the Commander, I established Seize the Initiative as USINDOPACOM's approach to implement the
National Defense Strategy (NDS) with a focus on deterring our adversaries by challenging the Joint Force to think,
act, and operate differently and synchronizing four lines of effort in the near-, mid-, and long-term. While some
progress has been made, the risk we assume is high and trending in the wrong direction, specifically due to delayed
delivery of military construction, advanced capabilities, and resources to persistently project and maintain forces
west of the International Date Line (IDL).

Pursuant to Section 1302 of the F.Y. 2024 NDAA, this Committee was provided USINDOPACOM's resourcing
requirements needed to deter the PRC. The content of this posture statement and the 1302 Report has been
provided to the Secretary and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. More than ever, USINDOPACOM needs
your support to deliver the sustainable solution outlined in my Independent Assessment.

Without a credible deterrent, China, Russia, and other revisionist powers will be emboldened to take action to
counter U.S. interests. This testimony focuses on how Seize the Initiative enables the U.S. to deter conflict while
reassuring our allies and partners.

This testimony describes the four focus areas and highlights the critical investments required to strengthen
deterrence, which is within our reach. We must establish a forward-deployed, defense-in-depth posture to defend
the U.S. homeland and interests abroad, deter aggression, assure allies, and provide the President and Secretary
of Defense flexible response options should deterrence fail. The four areas that will enable our warfighters to rapidly
operate within the first island chain with the capabilities to blind, see, and kill are as follows: 1) Distributed Force
Posture. A distributed force posture that is persistently forward-based, west of the IDL, makes U.S. forces more
effective, responsive, and survivable.

USINDOPACOM's Independent Assessment (1302 Report) provides a prioritized list of MILCON and access
agreements and required capabilities for each desired force posture location. With the support of Congress and the
Department of Defense, USINDOPACOM has worked diligently to accelerate construction and action of $50M of
advance planning. This includes Joint Area Development Plans, site surveys for the Guam Defense System (GDS),
and employment of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' Field Force Engineering Teams to the Philippines to rapidly
develop projects at existing and new agreed Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) sites. We have
also worked with special authority via 2807 notifications to implement $169M of design work to adequately program
for $2.75B in construction. Once construction is appropriated, these projects will provide an operational airfield,
port, and fuel storage projects needed to sustain the Joint Force west of the International Date Line.

2) Campaign of Joint and Combined Operations. A joint and combined campaign allows the combatant commander
to conduct full spectrum military operations in combination with the exercise and experimentation program to
enhance what is currently provided by the Services. Our campaign now includes persistent operations,
synchronized across the Joint Force in all domains and with allies and partners, linked over space and time. Key
highlights include ground forces operating in Northern Luzon of the Philippines and Japan's Southwest Islands and
combined Taiwan Strait Transits with Canada. USINDOPACOM campaigning is combined with and built around an

                                                                                         Page 3 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

exercise program supported by experimentation and enhanced through scale, scope, timing, and location changes.
We have brought high-end capabilities to exercises like BALIKITAN hosted by the Philippines and increased the
number of multilateral exercises such as SUPER GARUDA SHIELD hosted by Indonesia, COBRA GOLD hosted by
Thailand, KEEN EDGE hosted by Japan, and Talisman Sabre hosted by Australia. To better address campaigning
requirements and improve our military positioning in the theater to respond to crisis and conflict, USINDOPACOM is
evolving its command and control to be ready to fight tonight, thereby improving joint warfighting proficiency.

3) Advanced Warfighting Capabilities. Maintaining our joint warfighting advantage requires us to outpace our
challengers and urgently deliver advanced capabilities. With homeland defense as our number one priority, the
Guam Defense System (GDS) is a critical capability USINDOPACOM seeks to accelerate by fusing our most
advanced missile defense capabilities from Army, Navy, and Air Force systems. Maintaining decision superiority to
blind, see, and kill any threat provides a strong deterrent effect and enables us to be prepared to fight and win if
tasked. The Joint Fires Network (JFN) is USINDOPACOM's mechanism to integrate, command, control,
synchronize, and deliver effects across the battlespace. JFN has evolved expeditiously via an experimentation
campaign starting in 2019, yielding initial capability in 2024. The USINDOPACOM Mission Network (IMN), formerly
the Mission Partner Environment, is a secure, zero-trust data-centric environment that allows USINDOPACOM to
rapidly share information and a common operating picture with allies and partners. Additionally, the Pacific
Multidomain Training and Experimentation Capability (PMTEC) enhances U.S., allied, and partner training by
enabling realistic, joint, and combined training ranges to improves our future operations and exercises using
STORMBREAKER, an AI-based gaming and simulation capability. To further accelerate capability development
and fielding, USINDOPACOM established the Joint Mission Accelerator Directorate (JMAD) in 2023 to identify
emerging Department technology and commercial content able to mitigate capability gaps with near-term technical
solutions.

4) Enhanced Network of Allies and Partners. Our robust network of allies and partners is our most significant
asymmetrical advantage in long-term competition. Our alliances, multilateral arrangements, partnerships,
friendships, and Five Eyes relationships are essential to this network and play an important role in enhancing
regional security. Over the past three years, our network of strong, resilient, and mutually reinforcing relationships
have strengthened cooperation in unprecedented ways. AUKUS was established, and the trilateral partners have
since announced the Optimal Pathway for Australia's acquisition of conventionally armed, nuclear-powered
submarines. A new phase in U.S.-Japan-Republic of Korea trilateral cooperation facilitated the activation of 24/7
real-time DPRK missile warning data sharing last year. The new Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement
(EDCA) sites with the Philippines have reinvigorated the bilateral relationship with the Philippines, and provided the
opportunity to make significant bilateral advancements, including in economic projects in the Philippines. We have
also launched the India-U.S. Defense Acceleration Ecosystem (INDUS-X) and signed a defense cooperation
agreement with Papua New Guinea.

While there has been progress in all four areas, we MUST move faster to reduce the risk of conflict in the near and
mid-term. Each line of effort is integral to deterrence in the USINDOPACOM area of responsibility. USINDOPACOM
requests increased support to make progress across these four lines of effort, allowing us to continue to Seize the
Initiative.

***

Key Adversarial Challenges

Since I took command in 2021, our potential adversaries have become increasingly aggressive in seeking to
impose their will at the expense of all others. The PRC has coupled its massive military buildup with a campaign of
coercive actions designed to force more vulnerable nations to bend to their will. Russia's illegal, illegitimate invasion
of Ukraine exposed it as an irresponsible actor uninterested in upholding international commitments. DPRK
continues to develop weapons it plainly articulates as threats to both the region and the U.S. homeland. Individually,
each poses its challenges.

                                                                                         Page 4 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

***

People's Republic of China (PRC)

Strategic Intent

The PRC's strategic goals remain unchanged from those it held even before 2021. It remains the only competitor
with the military strength, will, and intent to change the world order with authoritarian characteristics and displace
the Free and Open Indo-Pacific. The PRC uses all elements of its "comprehensive national power" to attempt to
elevate China to the world's "indispensable power" and to alter the international system to one that encourages
repressive, authoritarian governance and protectionist economic practices that distort markets by avoiding
openness and transparency.

The PRC's aggressive military buildup underpins its drive to supplant United States security leadership in the
region, enabling the PRC to subjugate Taiwan, exert control over the South China Sea through its excessive
maritime claims, and oppress those who believe in a free and open Indo-Pacific. While the PRC military focuses on
regional issues, Beijing is setting the stage for a more significant global role through its global society, civilization,
and development initiatives.

***

Military Modernization

The PRC continues to advance its comprehensive military modernization program to transform the PLA into an
integrated, joint, high-tech, network-centric military force. Modernization has remained aggressive, and China
remains committed to delivering the capabilities needed to achieve its objective by 2027.

On a scale not seen since WWII, the PLA's buildup is occurring across land, sea, air, space, cyber, and information
domains. Despite challenges presented by COVID-19 and an economic downturn, the PRC's official defense
budget has risen over 16% from 192 billion USD to 223.5 billion USD. In the three years since I took command, the
PLA has added over 400 fighter aircraft (almost all 4th and 5th generation variants), more than 20 major warships
(guided missile cruisers, destroyers, frigates), and has more than doubled its inventory of ballistic and cruise
missiles. Likewise, China has increased the number of satellites launched by over 50% during this period, yielding a
five-fold increase since 2020. Perhaps most concerning has been the rapid pace at which the PRC has bolstered its
nuclear arsenal, increasing its warhead inventory by well over 100% since 2020.

During my tenure, we have observed the PRC's growing focus on developing the capability and capacity to project
power and challenge adversaries beyond the First Island Chain (FIC). The rapid expansion of the PLA Navy's
(PLAN) guided missile cruiser and destroyer inventories and advances in ballistic missiles will enable the PLAN to
contest adversaries increasingly farther outside the FIC. The subsurface fleet has also grown in volume and
capability, notably with the launch of nuclear-powered guided missile submarines (the PLAN's first SSGNs).

PLA aviation has also undergone a significant transformation since 2021. Combined, the PLA Air Force (PLAAF)
and PLAN Aviation constitute the largest aviation force in the Indo-Pacific. Over half of the PLA's operational fighter
force is 4th and 5th generation, enabling longer-range A2/AD and counter-air operations across the western Pacific
Ocean. The PLA is also developing a stealth bomber that can cover the Second Island Chain and the Western
Pacific.

The PLA's investment in modern, long-range weapons, almost certainly focused on countering third-party
intervention, is underscored by the rapid expansion of its ballistic missile inventories and technologies. During my
tenure, the PLA increased its inventory of intermediate and medium-range ballistic missiles by over 60% while
continuing to develop new longer-range capabilities, such as the DF-27 ballistic missile that will be able to reach
targets well beyond the Second Island Chain.

                                                                                         Page 5 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

The continued development of supporting space and communications technologies is steadily increasing the
lethality and precision of PLA systems. In addition to the sharp increase in space launches over the past three
years, the PRC is steadily delivering capabilities that seek to deny the use of our space architecture. Despite
statements opposing the weaponization of space, the PRC is developing a range of counter-space capabilities and
related technologies, including kinetic-kill missiles, ground-based lasers, and orbiting space robots.

Like other domains, the PLA's nuclear force has proliferated in the last three years. Upon taking command, the
number of nuclear warheads was in the low 200s, and its nuclear triad was nascent, with the air component
operationally fielded only in 2020. Now we see a PLA nuclear force with 500+ warheads, missile systems
employing multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles (MIRV), three new ICBM silo fields, and a nuclear-
capable, air-to-air refuelable bomber. Unfortunately, this is not the end of the PRC's nuclear buildup; the PLA has
plans for 1,000 warheads by 2030, accompanied by new air and sea-launch platforms.

***

Destabilizing Actions

Taiwan

Xi Jinping continues to view unification with Taiwan as a "historical inevitability" and "indispensable for the
realization of China's great rejuvenation." As such, Beijing is employing all elements of national power to lead
Taiwan and the international community to believe that unification is, in fact, inevitable. Although the PRC claims it
prefers to achieve unification through peaceful means, Xi will not renounce the use of force.

China's pressure campaign, ongoing in earnest since 2016, spiked in 2022 when the PLA executed a large-scale
military exercise following the U.S. House Speaker's visit to Taiwan. The well-documented, multidomain operation
established a new, more dangerous status quo for PLA activity and posture around Taiwan, normalizing warship
patrols around Taiwan and military flights crossing the Taiwan Strait centerline, routinely entering the PRC's self-
declared Air Defense Identification Zone, and executing legal actions to validate their objectives.

Equally concerning, the PLA is systematically rehearsing critical tasks associated with military operations against
Taiwan. In 2022 and 2023, the PLA rehearsed the encirclement of Taiwan, simulating a maritime and air blockade
of the island while bracketing the island with ballistic missile launches. Subsequent exercises in 2023 focused on
rehearsing counter-intervention and amphibious assault operations, the latter featuring extensive use of civilian
Roll-On Roll-Off (RORO) ferries and vehicle carriers. This operational strategy leverages civilian capabilities to
prepare its forces for seizing Taiwan.

***

Coercive and Risky Operational Behavior

Since 2021, the PLA has increasingly employed coercive tactics in response to activity the PRC deems provocative,
significantly raising the risk of an incident or accident that could lead to loss of life or spark a wider, unintended
conflict. The Department of Defense's 2023 China Military Power Report stated, "The PLA appears to have been
engaged in a centralized, concerted campaign to perform risky behaviors to coerce a change in lawful U.S.
operational activity and that of U.S. Allies and partners." These activities include reckless and dangerous
maneuvers in the air and at sea in response to our activities that are well within international law.

***

Excessive Maritime Claims in the Region

The PRC is challenging the regional status quo through increasingly coercive tactics to pressure Taiwan and to
force acceptance of Beijing's excessive maritime claims. The PRC accompanies its direct and clear claims with
pointed warnings, most clearly, but not exclusively, in its Taiwan-focused rhetoric. In the ongoing dispute with the

                                                                                         Page 6 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

Philippines in the South China Sea (SCS), the PRC has significantly increased its aggression against the
Philippines claiming "indisputable sovereignty" over Philippine waters. These actions are inconsistent with the
conclusions of the 2016 Arbitral Tribunal convened pursuant to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea.

During my tenure, the PRC has become increasingly assertive in enforcing its illegitimate sovereignty claims in the
SCS. The PRC continues to militarize its South China Sea outposts, enabling Beijing to threaten all nations
operating nearby. It is quietly undertaking land reclamation at unoccupied features - a strikingly provocative act that
clearly violates the spirit of the DOC. Over the last two years, the PRC utilized SCS-based CCG and maritime militia
to water cannon, laser, and ram Philippine vessels that were, attempting to lawfully resupply the Philippine outpost
at Second Thomas Shoal. The PRC's lawfare strategy is underpinned by increasingly assertive domestic laws,
portrayed as being consistent with international law that they use to justify the enforcement of their excessive
claims.

In the East China Sea, the PRC attempts to legitimize claims over the Japan-administered Senkaku Islands with a
continuous presence of PRC fishing and Maritime Militia vessels, escorted by Chinese Coast Guard (CCG) ships,
with PLAN ships nearby. CCG ships routinely enter territorial waters surrounding the Senkakus, frequently
harassing Japanese fishing vessels. Other actions, such as its annual, unilateral summer fishing ban, threaten
China's neighbors and clearly illustrate an attempt to change the existing international order in its favor. In 2021,
amid its long-running border dispute with India, the PRC passed a land border law, asserting "which asserted that
the "sovereignty and territorial integrity of the [PRC] are sacred and inviolable" sovereignty that and provided a legal
framework for greater PLA involvement in border security.

***

PRC-Russia Cooperation

Since declaring a "no-limits" partnership in 2022, combined Russia-China military activities and PRC support for
Russia's defense industrial base have become more concerning. Last summer's combined naval exercise in the
Sea of Japan and follow-up on distant naval patrol highlight this growing military cooperation. The PRC has helped
Russia rebuild and reconstitute its defense industrial base, with real world battlefield impacts in Ukraine. Beijing has
become the largest consumer of Russian oil and natural gas, essentially keeping the Russian economy afloat as it
suffers from the economic consequences of its illegal invasion of Ukraine.

The relationship is strengthened by the personal relationships between Xi and President Putin and their shared
antipathy for the United States and our allies. While Xi has voiced support for Russia's justifications for its Ukraine
war, the PRC has sought to avoid the appearance of direct support for Russia's military operations.

***

The Russian Federation

Strategic Intent

Russian President Vladimir Putin's blind ambition to reclaim the clout and influence of the Soviet Union has been
fully displayed in my three years at USINDOPACOM. With disastrous results for all involved, Putin's illegal invasion
of Ukraine exposed weakness in the Russian economy and further damaged its international standing. The Russian
economy has been exposed as one-dimensional and increasingly dependent on oil and natural gas exports.
Internationally, Russia has become further isolated, only explicitly supported by authoritarian regimes like the PRC,
the DPRK, and Iran.

Russia's inability to achieve its war aims continues to have disastrous consequences for its military, decimating
large swaths of its ground forces and seriously depleting stores of ammunition and armaments. Even so, Russia
remains a formidable potential adversary in the Indo-Pacific, intent on improving its ability to defend Russian

                                                                                         Page 7 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

territory in the Northern Pacific, strike U.S. and Allied targets, and sustain military engagement as a significant
component of regional influence.

***

Military Modernization

Even with its immediate attention fixed on Ukraine, the Russian Naval Doctrine published in 2022 prioritizes the
Pacific and Arctic regions above all others. Its main goal of "strategic stability" (a euphemism for mutual nuclear
deterrence) delineates the Sea of Okhotsk and much of the Arctic as "areas of existential importance" alongside
Russian territorial seas and its exclusive economic zone (EEZ). It is within this context that Russia has pursued the
modernization of its strategic assets in the region, even as its conventional forces are engaged in Ukraine.

Since 2021, Russia's Pacific Fleet has added several modern surface ships and submarines to increase Moscow's
combat capability. Russia fielded new nuclear-powered ballistic and cruise missile submarines and upgraded Kilo-
class diesel submarines. Armed with dual nuclear and conventional capable Kalibr cruise missiles and the Tsirkon
hypersonic cruise missile (still in testing), the Russian Pacific Fleet is increasing its ability to threaten U.S. and allied
land and maritime targets.

Russia also continues to invest in modernizing its nuclear triad's land and air legs. This past January, Moscow
identified the completion of the deployment of the Sarmat strategic missile system, which replaces legacy ICBMs
with the new system capable of carrying multiple warheads. Russia also continues to upgrade its strategic bomber
force in pursuit of Russia's aim to be able to effectively strike every U.S. installation in the Pacific, Alaska, and the
U.S. West Coast.

***

Destabilizing Actions

Power Projection

Russia uses its Pacific-facing forces as a power projection tool, signaling that it has retained the capability and
capacity to use military force in the region if it so chooses despite significant losses in Ukraine. In addition to
strategic air patrols that skirt the coasts of Alaska, Hawaii, and Guam, the Russian military also uses exercises near
U.S. and allied territory to reinforce perceptions of military might. The Russian exercise FINVAL 2023 reportedly
involved 10,000 Russian Navy Pacific Fleet personnel, and numerous ships, submarines, aircraft, helicopters, and
coastal missile systems. It deliberately messaged Moscow's intent to control its declared Northern Sea Route,
including areas near Alaska.

***

Combined Exercises and Naval Diplomacy

The increasing frequency of combined activity is cause for concern. In addition to naval drills, Russia continues to
partner with the PLA in strategic bomber patrols in the western Pacific near Guam. Russia is also increasingly
collaborating with the PLA to execute combined air patrols that regularly cross into Japan and the Republic of
Korea's Air Defense Identification Zones (ADIZ), further threatening our allies.

***

Arms Transfers from the DPRK

One of the many unfortunate outcomes of Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine is a growing relationship between
Moscow and Pyongyang. In addition to the ammunition the DPRK supplied last year, DPRK provided short-range
ballistic missiles (SRBMs) that Russia is presently using in Ukraine. In return, Kim Jong Un probably seeks

                                                                                         Page 8 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

technical support for his growing strategic weapons program and Moscow's political support through its veto power
at the United Nations Security Council.

***

Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK)

Strategic Intent

The DPRK's primary strategic priority - regime security - has remained fixed for decades. What has become
increasingly evident over the past three years is that Kim Jong Un is unwilling to slow the development of strategic
weapons, even in the face of blistering sanctions, to possess a credible strategic deterrent. The DPRK's laser focus
on developing technology and weapons that enable its strategic strike capability is evidenced both by the
statements coming from Pyongyang and the well-publicized tests of systems intended to deliver nuclear strikes
against the U.S. homeland and its regional neighbors.

***

Military Modernization

Over the past three years, the DPRK has primarily focused its military modernization efforts on strategic
capabilities. At the DPRK's 8th Party Congress in 2021, Kim Jong Un articulated his intent to further develop
strategic weapons and supporting technologies. Kim specifically highlighted preemptive and retaliatory precision
nuclear strike capabilities, developing tactical nuclear weapons, solid-fuel ballistic missiles, and fielding a military
reconnaissance satellite as priorities. The DPRK has made significant progress toward its 8th Party Congress
goals. In 2023, the DPRK unveiled what appear to be miniaturized warheads that can be employed on shorter-
range missiles and conducted drills simulating tactical nuclear strikes and a nuclear counterattack. Since 2021,
Pyongyang has also publicized multiple advancements in delivery platforms, now claiming the ability to launch
weapons from subsurface, rail, and silo-based launchers. Modernization of the DPRK's vast conventional force has
been slower in comparison but progressing nonetheless. Ballistic missile submarines, associated SLBMs, and
unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) closely resembling U.S. systems highlight recent developments.

Destabilizing Actions Missile Launches Since 2021, the DPRK has launched over 100 ballistic and cruise missiles,
including an IRBM that overflew Japan. In 2022, the DPRK restarted ICBM testing--paused since 2017--and tested
a new solid-propellant ICBM in 2023. In 2024, DPRK launched a solid-propellant ballistic missile loaded with a
hypersonic mobile control warhead. The advancements in solid-propellant rocket motors potentially enable DPRK to
launch missiles with much less warning than their liquid-propellant counterparts.

***

Escalatory Behavior

The DPRK increasingly messages its aggressive behavior as a response to the actions of its adversaries. In an
address to the U.N., the DPRK accused the U.S. of a "sinister intention to provoke a nuclear war" and attempting to
create an "Asian NATO." These comments come in a year that saw Pyongyang's actions compel the Republic of
Korea to suspend the 2018 Comprehensive Military Agreement, designed to lower military tensions and accidental
military clashes between the two countries. Among other provocations, Pyongyang threatened to shoot down any
U.S. reconnaissance aircraft breaching its claimed airspace, fired more than 200 artillery rounds near a disputed
maritime border with the ROK, launched an intercontinental ballistic missile into waters near Japan, and simulated a
missile strike on the ROK in protest of military drills conducted by ROK with the United States.

***

Satellite Launch

                                                                                         Page 9 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

The DPRK also took significant steps to advance its space and satellite reconnaissance capabilities to meet the
goals identified in the 8th Party Congress. In 2023, DPRK successfully used its ballistic missile technology to launch
its first reconnaissance satellite following two high-profile failures. The successful launch occurred only months after
a Kim-Putin summit in Russia. Putin reportedly promised to help DPRK build satellites, almost certainly in return for
support for Russia's war effort.

***

Support to Russia

In addition to ballistic missiles, the DPRK has probably provided over one million artillery shells and scores of
missiles to Russia. Pyongyang almost certainly hopes to leverage Russian technological expertise to bolster its
nuclear and ballistic missile programs. These benefits are in addition to the diplomatic cover Moscow provides
DPRK, using its U.N. Security Council vote to frustrate efforts to increase sanctions against Pyongyang.

***

Sanctions Evasion

DPRK's efforts to evade U.N. imposed sanctions intended to curtail funding for its nuclear and other WMD
programs are nothing new. In 2023, a U.N. Panel of Experts found that the DPRK continues to employ various
evasion measures to import refined petroleum products. The report states that, after a record-breaking level of
cyber thefts in 2022, estimated at $1.7 billion, the DPRK continued to successfully target cyber cryptocurrency and
other financial exchanges globally to support its sanctioned development programs. Even as DPRK takes more
aggressive steps in these programs and tests more weapons in contravention of Security Council resolutions,
Russia and China continue to resist efforts to strengthen sanctions.

***

Violent Extremist Organizations (VEOs)

Transnational and ethno-nationalist violent extremist organizations remain active across the Indo-Pacific region.
The December 2023 bombing of a Catholic Mass in the southern Philippines that killed four is only the most recent
reminder. While VEO strength as a whole in the region is far from its pinnacle, and security forces throughout the
region have thinned VEO ranks, we must remain vigilant in our efforts to prevent violent extremists from planning
and executing attacks.

***

Implementing Seize the Initiative

USINDOPACOM developed the Seize the Initiative approach to transform the needed force posture, operational
campaign, advanced capabilities, and partnerships to defend the nation and deter our adversaries. Essential to this
approach is the imperative to think, act, and operate differently. With the support of Congress, USINDOPACOM has
made progress in the last three years in preparing and planning for a distributed force posture, implementing an
integrated, operational campaign of joint operations, activities, and investments (OAIs) with advanced capabilities
specifically designed to enhance deterrence, and strengthening relationships with our allies and partners.

***

Distributed Force Posture

Deterrence depends on the ability of the Joint Force to act quickly and decisively, which requires an increasingly
flexible and distributed force posture and logistics network. Central to Seizing the Initiative is shifting from the "As
Is" posture of 2021 to a near future "To Be" force posture of forward-based and rotational joint forces. By creating a

                                                                                        Page 10 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

distributed force posture west of the IDL, U.S. forces are more responsive, survivable, and interoperable with our
allies and partners. This effort also provides the Secretary and the President with increased options to respond to a
crisis.

A distributed force posture also requires new approaches to sustainment and logistics, as well as definitive access,
basing, and overflight (ABO) agreements with allies and partners. USINDOPACOM's Joint Posture Management
Office (JPMO), established in 2023, synchronized theater posture planning, design, and construction to streamline
and coordinate priorities. Across the Indo-Pacific, USINDOPACOM has been pursuing distributed force posture
aligned across four posture "clusters." Specific site information and planning efforts are described in detail in the
classified 1302 Report.

Congressional funding and support have allowed USINDOPACOM to progress with design and planning. However,
many of these projects still need to be prioritized by the Services. We have only completed 12 of over 200 required
infrastructure projects in my three years in command. Forty-seven (47) high-priority MILCON projects still need to
be funded. However, we can now create gains with the support from the additional authorities and funding provided
by Congress. We seek the programming and budgeting necessary to implement significant construction efforts as
early as FY25.

***

The Guam Cluster

The Guam cluster - comprised of the forward-most U.S. territories of Guam and the Commonwealth of Northern
Mariana Islands (CNMI) - as well as the Freely Associated States (FAS), which include the Federated States of
Micronesia (FSM), the Republic of Palau and the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) - is the cornerstone of the
U.S. security architecture west of the International Date Line. In a crisis, bases and infrastructure in these territories
and states will be crucial to sustain the Joint Force. USINDOPACOM has worked diligently to build local political
support across the region over the last three years. The national and territorial governments have welcomed the
increased transparent communications and our willingness to incorporate local concerns into our plans.

USINDOPACOM continues to work towards rapid implementation of priority posture projects in the region, an
enabling component of the "To Be" posture. The Defense Policy Review Initiative (DPRI) is on plan. It continues to
develop infrastructure on Guam and CNMI, including Marine Corps Base Camp Blaz, where Marines will begin
movement from Okinawa by the end of the year. USINDOPACOM and Congress have successfully identified ways
to accelerate posture processes to meet the Guam cluster's emerging operational infrastructure development
requirements. The funding Congress enacted for USINDOPACOM in FY22 and FY23 funded the necessary
planning and development for critical Joint Force-enabling projects not prioritized by the Services. Leveraging these
targeted investments and authorities, USINDOPACOM was able to advance infrastructure needs in FSM, Palau,
and CNMI on a faster timeline than traditional MILCON and better position projects for funding within the budget
cycle. USINDOPACOM and the FAS continue discuss potential ways to negotiate on additional defense sites for
use by all Services. These sites will significantly enhance our logistical lines of communication and add to our
aviation dispersal and other combat capabilities, while providing attendant economic benefits to the local
governments.

Our increasing military capabilities strain local infrastructure and sustainment networks in the U.S. territories and
the FAS. The remote nature of many of the posture project locations in this region results in a massive demand for
limited materials, contracting, and housing resources. In Guam and CNMI, the totality of military construction
projects is too large to be supported solely by local labor. Congress has provided much-needed relief from the H-2B
temporary work requirement extending through 2029 for projects directly connected to military realignment.
Additional relief is necessary to enable prolonged extensions of H-2B visas and direct relief for typhoon recovery
and resilience projects in Guam and the CNMI. Absent additional relief before FY27, the loss of an assured
workforce will result in cost and schedule impacts to both military relocation and typhoon resilience projects;
impacts will increase until the workforce collapses in FY30.

                                                                                        Page 11 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

Under the Compacts of Free Association (COFA) agreements with the Freely Associated States (FAS), the U.S.
has full authority and responsibility for security and defense matters in and related to the FAS, including extensive
access to operations in their territories. In May 2023, the U.S. signed agreements with FSM and Palau to extend
economic assistance for twenty years, and in October 2023, the U.S. signed a similar agreement with the RMI. I
want to thank Congress for recently approving legislation to implement and bring agreements under COFA into
force. The President signed these 20-year assistance agreements into law this month, reaffirming the perception of
the United States as a reliable partner for all Pacific Island nations.

***

The Japan Cluster

USINDOPACOM has worked closely with the Government of Japan to optimize Alliance force posture based on
improved operational concepts and enhanced capabilities to address increasing security challenges in the region,
including for the defense of Japan's Southwest Islands. In October 2022, the United States completed a
deployment of MQ-9s to Japan's Kanoya Air Base, followed by movement to Kadena Air Base in November 2023.
In April 2023, USINDOPACOM established the Composite Watercraft Company at Yokohama North Dock to
strengthen Alliance maritime mobility. In addition, as part of our commitment to strengthening Japan's defense, the
U.S. began the first deployment of a TPS-80 radar system to the Sakishima Islands in October 2023.

We continue to work with the Government of Japan to position more resilient and mobile forces with increased
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR), anti-ship, and transportation capabilities. To strengthen
deterrence and response capabilities, we are optimizing the posture of U.S. forces in Japan, alongside enhanced
Japan Self-Defense Force (JSDF) capabilities and posture in areas including the Southwest Islands. Further, we
are continuing close consultation with Japan to expand joint use of U.S. and Japanese facilities and enhance
bilateral exercises and training focusing on Japan's Sakishima Islands.

***

The Philippines Cluster

In 2023, to allow both countries to address shared challenges in the Indo-Pacific region, the United States and the
Philippines designated four additional EDCA in addition to the five existing EDCA sites. The four new announced
EDCA sites will expand U.S. rotational access across the Philippines, strategically strengthening the interoperability
of U.S. and Philippine armed forces and facilitating the rapid provision of humanitarian assistance and disaster
relief in the Philippines.

The U.S. has allocated over $109 million towards infrastructure improvements at the five existing EDCA locations
and two new EDCA locations. This investment, and forthcoming additional allotment, will complete twenty-three
projects, enabling the U.S. and the Philippines to continue to build lasting security infrastructure to fill short-term
capability gaps, promote long-term modernization, establish a credible mutual defense posture, maintain
humanitarian assistance and disaster relief capabilities, and enhance the strength of the alliance. We anticipate
making significant progress in the Philippines this year. Once appropriations are received, we have several projects
ready for rapid execution. We will streamline construction at the EDCA locations using a design-build acquisition
approach that employs new and recently provided authorities for smaller projects (up to $9M) using Unspecified
Minor Military Construction.

***

The Australia Cluster

To ensure an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, stable, peaceful, prosperous, and respectful of sovereignty, the
United States has completed twelve construction projects in the Indo-Pacific region worth $146M; three of these
projects support our bilateral alliance with Australia. These efforts have been carried out in close partnership with

                                                                                        Page 12 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

the Australian Department of Defense's U.S. Force Posture Initiatives (USFPI) program, which focuses on Marine
Rotational Force - Darwin, enhanced air cooperation, enhanced land cooperation, enhanced maritime cooperation,
combined logistics sustainment, and maintenance enterprise, and enhanced space cooperation. There are three
large MILCON projects in Australia to improve the early phases of Darwin/Tindal airfield improvements and
ammunition and fuel storage. USINDOPACOM is working to identify alternatives which might enable accelerated
execution of other posture initiatives.

Over the past few years, the United States and Australia have expanded posture coordination beyond Australia.
The United States has recently added several initiatives to our posture planning efforts to support AUKUS and
mutual operational requirements. Australia has been a valuable partner in coordinating posture initiatives and other
cooperation activities across the Pacific Island region, including with the government of Papua New Guinea. In May
2023, the United States and Papua New Guinea signed a bilateral defense cooperation agreement (DCA) enabling
the modernization and strengthening of this important security partnership in the region. The DC will enhance
security cooperation, further strengthen our bilateral relationship, improve the capability of the PNG Defence Force,
and increase stability and security in the region.

***

Deterrence Campaign of Joint and Combined Operations

Through a persistent campaign in the Indo-Pacific, USINDOPACOM deters adversaries by demonstrating U.S.
capabilities, responsiveness, and commitment to the region. USINDOPACOM's deterrence campaign normalizes
U.S. operations in the AOR, builds warfighting advantage through rehearsal of concepts, and strengthens
interoperability with allies and partners. Since 2021, USINDOPACOM has actively worked to expand its campaign
of joint and combined operations, including phased surges that increase our positions of relative advantage by
concentrating OAIs in time and tempo to maximize effects. Improvements to OAIs include expansion of operational
complexity across all domains and enhanced coordination of global activities with other combatant commands.
Additionally, to strengthen O A.I.s with allies and partners, USINDOPACOM is conducting new flexible response
options and multilateral operations to increase the complexity of our activities, create new dilemmas for adversaries,
and reassure like-minded countries within the theater.

The key to our deterrence campaign is maintaining our forward stationed and rotational forces to maintain our
military strength to respond quickly to any contingency. The removal of capability or capacity of the Joint Force
sends the wrong message to our potential adversaries, allies, and partners. Additionally, the Navy, Army, and
Marine Corps still need to procure the types and quantities of the munitions required to defeat threats in the Indo-
Pacific region. These Service decisions continue to increase the risk to USINDOPACOM and its men and women
while reducing our forces' overall deterrent effect in theater.

To meld Service capabilities into an integrated Joint Force, USINDOPACOM is evolving its operational command
and control to be prepared to "fight tonight," thereby improving joint warfighting proficiency and effectiveness. As
the updated command structure executes operations, activities, and investments throughout the region, we will
capture lessons learned and identify known shortfalls in personnel, facilities, and equipment. These lessons and
shortfalls will inform future USINDOPACOM resource requirements.

The first step in this process was forming a joint force headquarters on Guam, Joint Task Force-Micronesia (JTF-
M). JTF-M integrates joint, all-domain command and control effects and mission command and control in Guam. As
of January 2024, an initial staff for the JTF is on Guam and setting the conditions to establish an enduring
headquarters. USINDOPACOM will identify additional resources and staffing requirements as planning efforts and
joint exercises refine operational concepts.

***

Exercise, Experimentation, and Training

                                                                                        Page 13 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

USINDOPACOM's Joint Exercise Program has been integrated into our deterrence campaign plan and is critical to
a trained and ready joint force. Major joint exercises put aggregated combat formations with advanced capabilities
in a position to conduct all-domain operations and activities. With allies and partners, these exercises demonstrate
interoperability and warfighting proficiency, contributing to combat credibility and bolstering deterrence.

Since 2021, USINDOPACOM has evolved the exercise program to increase multilateral participation, facilitate
experimentation with advanced concepts and technologies, and demonstrate the ability to execute high-end all-
domain warfighting in the theater. In 2023, USINDOPACOM oversaw an annual exercise program consisting of
nineteen joint and more than ninety Service exercises involving participants from the United States and allies and
partners across the globe.

Bilateral exercises such as KEEN EDGE with Japan and BALIKATAN with the Philippines have expanded to
multilateral events and have increased in complexity, interoperability, and scope. Additionally, USINDOPACOM
expanded previously unilateral exercises such as NORTHERN EDGE and VALIANT SHIELD to integrate other
combatant commands and allies such as Australia and the United Kingdom. Continued and additional investment in
USINDOPACOM's Joint Training Exercise and Evaluation Program (JTEEP) will further advance the Command's
ability to exercise large-scale, all-domain joint and combined exercises in contested environments, improving joint
force training, readiness, and interoperability.

USINDOPACOM developed the Pacific Multidomain Training and Experimentation Capability (PMTEC) to enhance
U.S., allied, and partner training. PMTEC enables realistic joint, combined all-domain training across a live-virtual-
constructive environment via networked ranges, simulation centers, and mobile training support systems. PMTEC
resourcing in FY23 delivered substantial contributions to transition the Joint Exercise Program into operationalized
training, experimentation, and rehearsal events through the BALIKATAN, NORTHERN EDGE, and TALISMAN
SABRE exercises, among others. Through PMTEC, these previously geographically focused exercises enjoyed
greater theater-wide participation due to linking capabilities across the theater and adding more Combined Joint All
Domain Operations (CJADO) in the events. CJADO activities were supported by CONUS-based constructive and
virtual support to provide more realistic common operational pictures, including increased emulation of space,
cyber, and electronic warfare effects. PMTEC reached Initial Operational Capability for exercise enhancement
through these initiatives in September 2023.

***

Advanced Warfighting Capabilities

Over the past three years, the PRC has continued the most extensive and rapid buildup since World War II. With
the Department focused on the PRC as the pacing threat, delivering capabilities enables us to sustain credible
deterrence. This budget cycle is a critical opportunity to focus concertedly on providing the right capabilities in the
suitable capacity on the proper timelines to strengthen deterrence.

***

Guam Defense System (GDS)

As the most forward U.S. territory in the Western Pacific, Guam is a strategic outpost critical to projecting power,
maintaining deterrence and stability, and responding to regional crises or conflicts. Establishing the GDS - a 360-
degree, persistent, layered, and integrated air and missile defense on Guam - remains the top homeland defense
priority for USINDOPACOM to protect more than 170,000 U.S. citizens on the island. The U.S. has programmed
billions of dollars in defense capability on Guam to advance these capabilities, including offensive capabilities,
command and control, and sustainment.

In June 2023, the Deputy Secretary of Defense designated the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment (USD A&S) as the senior DoD official responsible for the Integrated Air and Missile Defense of Guam,
the Army as the Service Acquisition Executive (SAE), and GDS as an Acquisition Category (ACAT) 1D program.

                                                                                        Page 14 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

USINDOPACOM joined multiple war games and exercises in the past three years that have refined and optimized
the GDS defensive capabilities. Although field-testing of the initial elements of GDS will begin in 2024,
USINDOPACOM continues to advocate for and work with the larger defense enterprise to accelerate the fielding of
the entire GDS ahead of the current delivery timelines. As of today, USINDOPACOM believes the completion and
integration of the GDS will be late to need and continues to advocate for prioritizing and accelerating the necessary
operations, activities, and investments (OAIs) to complete the initiative this decade.

***

DECISION SUPERIORITY

Decision superiority requires us to operate in contested space safely, sustain target quality, real-time battlespace
awareness, and deliver multidomain joint fires. A Persistent Targeting-Quality Common Operating Picture (PT-
COP) - the visualization of fires command and control drawing from a common data layer and pairing the best
weapons against adversary targets - is necessary to enable BLIND - SEE - KILL effects. JFN provides decision
superiority by fusing sensors across all domains and platforms with intelligence and other information to provide
target guidance simultaneously to commanders across the battlefield.

Combined warfighting also requires rapidly sharing information and a common operating picture with allies and
partners in a secure and resilient data-centric environment. IMN is an agile environment that modernizes command,
control, communication, computer, and information technology (C4IT) systems by shifting USINDOPACOM from
thirteen separate coalition systems into one system to deliver combined C2 in a contested environment. IMN
increases coalition access to data, improves mission assurance west of the IDL, and enables campaigning and
coalition operations by getting the correct information to the right partner at the right time. Without full resourcing,
the modernization and fielding of this more resilient and effective mission partner communication in the theater will
be delayed.

***

BLIND: Operate in Contested Space and Domains

Deterring conflict requires the U.S. to demonstrate the ability to operate in all contested spaces and dominate all
domains, especially in space and cyberspace. Our competitors recognize the importance of space and cyberspace
and have invested heavily to advance their capabilities in these domains. Over the last three years, the U.S. has
made the investments necessary to maintain its advantage in space and cyberspace, and we must continue to
focus resources and talent in these domains to stay ahead. USINDOPACOM's mission depends on U.S.
dominance in space and cyberspace through resilient and flexible capabilities integrated and exercised with our
allies and partners.

***

SEE: Battlespace Awareness Across the Joint Force

Since 2021, USINDOPACOM has advocated for resources to fund critical future space-based intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) systems explicitly designed to support warfighting requirements and
improvements in signals intelligence collection capability. These capabilities combine to enable a complete
understanding of the battlespace throughout the Joint Force and share that understanding with key allies and
partners.

***

KILL: Synchronizing Joint Fires

USINDOPACOM's Joint Fires Network (JFN) initiative seeks to integrate Joint Force capabilities into a coherent
architecture to provide a Persistent Targeting Common Operating Picture (PT-COP), a Common Data Layer (CDL),

                                                                                        Page 15 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

a standard set of integrated Battle Management and Command and Control Applications (BMC2), and a resilient,
secure transport-agnostic communications infrastructure. JFN is USINDOPACOM's mechanism to integrate,
synchronize, and deliver effects across the battlespace.

Since USINDOPACOM established the JFN initiative in 2022, we have made tremendous strides thanks to our
close partnership with OSD Acquisition and Sustainment (OSD A&S); Research and Engineering (OSD R&E); the
Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Office (CDAO); the Defense Innovation Unit (DIU); the Services; the
Intelligence Community; and industry. We developed and deployed fifteen JFN experimentation kits in 2023 in eight
months. With these kits, we conducted experimentation in three joint exercise and experimentation venues in CY23,
successfully scaling up from eight nodes in NORTHERN EDGE 23-1 to twenty nodes in NORTHERN EDGE 23-2.
To further accelerate our progress, we successfully integrated with the OSD-led Global Information Dominance
Exercise in December 2023(GIDE 8). Further integration in exercises, including a JFN live fire demonstration during
VALIANT SHIELD 2024, will deliver an initial JFN combat credible capability to the Joint Force in CY24.

***

Joint Mission Accelerator Directorate (JMAD)

To identify and accelerate solutions that enhance the interdependencies between required strategic capabilities,
USINDOPACOM established the JMAD in October 2023. JMAD is driving the acceleration, integration, and
interoperability of the most critical and strategic needs across the Department and the Joint Force. JMAD has
already initiated the integration of JFN and IMN architectures. JMAD also oversees STORMBREAKER,
USINDOPACOM's program to develop a Joint Operational Planning Toolkit (JOPT) enabled by advanced
technology that will include advanced data optimization capabilities, machine learning, and artificial intelligence to
support planning, war gaming, mission analysis, and execution of all-domain, operational-level course of action
development. STORMBREAKER is optimizing alignment with operational and wartime planning requirements and
objectives.

***

Enhanced Network of Allies and Partners

Over the last three years, USINDOPACOM has trained, operated, exercised, experimented with, and engaged
allies and partners from across the region and the globe to enhance the security and stability of the Indo-Pacific.
The relationships we have developed are built upon respect, trust, and shared values that are not just enduring but
transformative. Our network of allies and partners is an unmatchable asymmetric advantage, and our work together
is critical to delivering integrated deterrence.

***

Multilateral Cooperation, Coordination, and Integration

Strengthening our bilateral, trilateral, and multilateral defense relations is one of USINDOPACOM's highest
priorities, whether through capacity building, security cooperation, increasingly complex exercises, or advanced
capability development. Developing stronger multilateral relationships in the region has been one of our greatest
successes in the last three years, resulting in increased multilateral deterrence effects and the creation of
relationships and activities among U.S. allies and partners to pursue a more stable order in the region.

***

AUKUS

AUKUS embodies a generational opportunity to modernize the longstanding relationships among the United States,
Australia, and the United Kingdom (U.K.), guided by a shared commitment to global security. The trilateral AUKUS
partnership consists of two pillars: Submarine Consultation (Pillar I) and Advanced Capabilities (Pillar II).

                                                                                        Page 16 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

On Pillar I, we are working to deliver a conventionally armed, nuclear-powered submarine capability to Australia as
soon as possible, upholding while setting the highest nuclear non-proliferation standards. We have already made
significant progress in operator and industry training for Australia, and we look forward to having Australian sailors
commence duty in Guam this year to build their maintenance skills. We are also increasing the number of visits of
nuclear-powered attack submarines to Australia, including the visit by the USS North Carolina in 2023 and the visit
going on right now by the USS Annapolis.

We are working to accelerate and deepen cooperation on advanced defense capabilities through Pillar II. The
Chiefs of Defense from Australia, the U.K., and I have made specific recommendations to the respective ministers
and the Secretary of Defense on the priority areas that can deliver advanced capability in the near term while we
also pursue maritime autonomous systems, anti-submarine warfare: undersea vehicles; positioning, navigation, and
timing (PNT); artificial intelligence (A.I.); space capabilities; and integrated air and missile defense (IAMD). We
appreciate the NDAA's establishment of national exemptions for Australia and the United Kingdom from U.S.
defense export control licensing and adding these two allies to the U.S. Defense Production Act. These provisions
are crucial to enable accelerated delivery of advanced capabilities.

***

U.S.-Japan-ROK

Trilateral cooperation between the United States, Japan, and the ROK is a priority for the United States and crucial
for security in northeast Asia. The relationship between our three nations is the strongest it has ever been. As the
DPRK continues its provocations, we are committed to enhancing our deterrence by responding in concert with our
allies through improved intelligence and missile defense information sharing, combined operations in response to
DPRK actions, and strengthening our interoperability across all three nations. In the last three years, we advanced
a new era of trilateral cooperation by activating a 24/7 real-time DPRK missile warning data-sharing mechanism.
The efforts improve our shared ability to ensure the safety of our people by trilaterally detecting and assessing
DPRK missiles. We expanded our trilateral exercise program's scope and scale in recent years through successful
trilateral ballistic missile defense, anti-submarine warfare, air exercises, and exercises with our Canadian and
Australian partners. In 2023, we negotiated a multi-year trilateral exercise program, which formalized our trilateral
cooperation in exercises for the next two years.

***

The Quad

The Quad nations, represented by Australia, India, Japan, and the U.S., is a diplomatic network supporting a
prosperous, Free, and Open Indo-Pacific. The Quad is not a military alliance, but rather a diplomatic network
committed to a peaceful, secure region, free from intimidation and committed to the rule of law. The Quad nations
collaborate on matters such as maritime awareness, disaster response, and counterterrorism to enhance stability
in the Indo-Pacific region. Including all Quad nations in India's Exercise MALABAR demonstrates commitment of
Quad nations to a Free and Open Indo-Pacific. The chiefs of defense of Australia, India, Japan and I now meet
annually for the Indo-Pacific Security Dialogue to discuss common security challenges.

***

Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)

ASEAN advances critical works to uphold the rules-based order, advance respect for international law, and
peacefully resolve disputes through consultation, diplomacy, and consensus-based decision-making. At the 2022
U.S.-ASEAN Summit, President Biden announced the launch of the U.S.-ASEAN Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership. USINDOPACOM is committed to supporting maritime security cooperation with ASEAN, including
significant support via the U.S. Pacific Fleet to a second ASEAN Maritime Exercise in 2025. USINDOPACOM is

                                                                                        Page 17 of 18
   Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                               (Part 1 of 2)

also co-chairing a Medical Expert Working Group with Indonesia and is developing concepts to support Laos'
initiatives in environmental resilience; women, peace, and security; and cyber efforts.

***

Blue Pacific Cooperative

The Blue Pacific Cooperative (BPC) is a USINDOPACOM-led initiative to support the 2050 Strategy for the Blue
Pacific Continent and, the Pacific regional framework laid out by the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF), and ultimately
address critical issues for Blue Pacific nations, such as combating illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing
and building climate resilience. The BPC provides the 17 partner nations with enhanced maritime domain
awareness and seamless information sharing and supports the Forum Fisheries Agency based in the Solomon
Islands and the Fiji Maritime Surveillance Rescue Coordination Center. Additionally, as a member of the Pacific
Quad with Australia, France, and New Zealand, we work to build the capacity of Blue Pacific nations' maritime
security forces, assist in the protection of central and western Pacific fisheries, and provide access to maritime
domain awareness technology and best practices to counter IUU fishing assets. U.S. cooperation with Blue Pacific
nations without militaries focuses on improving relations through engineering projects, combating transnational
crime, and enhancing coordination and collaboration. In July 2023, Samoa joined the State Partnership Program
with the Nevada National Guard.

***

Northeast Asia

Our relationships with allies and partners in Northeast Asia are crucial to deterring aggressive action by the DPRK,
Russia, and the PRC, as well as securing the support needed to transition to conflict if necessary. Increasing
bilateral interoperability and growing multilateral relationships and operations have significantly improved our
strategic position and deterrence within the First Island Chain.

Alliances with Japan and the ROK are the cornerstone of regional peace and security. Beyond trilateral
cooperation, bilateral relations with each country are consistently being modernized to prevail in the new era of
strategic competition and underpin a shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific.

The U.S. and Japan made significant progress in modernizing the alliance in the last three years, including
expanding bilateral planning efforts for contingencies and exploring more effective alliance command and control
relationships to enhance interoperability. We are rapidly expanding our multilateral cooperation efforts by including
partners such as Canada, the Philippines, the ROK, and the U.K. in Exercise KEEN SWORD 23 and Australia in
KEEN EDGE 24. The U.S. and Japan continue to optimize force posture, including for the defense of the Southwest
Islands, by forward-deploying more resilient and mobile capabilities. Japan continues demonstrating its resolve to
take a more active role in maintaining regional peace and stability. Japan has committed to doubling its defense
budget from 1% to 2% by 2027, resulting in unprecedented defense spending. This spending includes counter-
strike, integrated air and missile defense, multidomain, sustainment, and other capabilities.

***

(Continues with Part 2 of 2)

***

Original text here: https://www.armed-services.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/aquilino_statement.pdf

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8584816 MSTRUCK

                                                                                       Page 18 of 18
  Senate Armed Services Committee Issues Testimony From U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Commander Aquilino
                                              (Part 1 of 2)


Load-Date: April 20, 2024


  
