

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
    EPA Awards $200,000 to Los Angeles Small Businesses to Advance Innovative Environmental Technologies




       EPA Awards $200,000 to Los Angeles Small Businesses to Advance
                   Innovative Environmental Technologies
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           January 2, 2024 Tuesday 6:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 450 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: LOS ANGELES, California

Body


The Environmental Protection Agency issued the following news release:

This week, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is announcing $200,000 in research funding to two Los
Angeles small businesses to further develop and commercialize their environmental technologies. The funding
comes through the agency's Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant program.

"California's small businesses are leaders in creating innovative and practical zero waste solutions that have far-
reaching benefits for communities," said EPA Pacific Southwest Deputy Regional Administrator Cheree Peterson.
"These companies' efforts to bring their technologies to market will advance the circular economy while protecting
public health and the environment."

Each year, EPA issues an SBIR solicitation for technology proposals for targeted environmental topics. The SBIR
program consists of two phases of funding. The companies announced today previously received Phase I contracts
of up to $100,000 for six months during the "proof of concept" of their proposed technologies. Now, for this Phase II
announcement, companies are awarded up to $400,000 to further develop and commercialize their technologies.

This year's SBIR Phase II award recipients in Los Angeles are:

* Water Illumination Inc. (Irvine, Calif.) to develop technology using UV light to destroy PFAS in wastewater without
producing harmful byproducts.

* Holochip Corporation (Torrance, Calif.) to develop a mobile mapping application that does not require access to
GPS, Bluetooth, or Wi-Fi for users in disaster areas.

"We are very excited to have received this SBIR award," said Water Illumination CEO Xuejun Yu. "It will accelerate
our company's efforts towards commercializing a sustainable PFAS destruction technology from water that can
serve the greater Los Angeles region and beyond."

                                                                                              Page 2 of 2
   EPA Awards $200,000 to Los Angeles Small Businesses to Advance Innovative Environmental Technologies

"We are excited to be partnering with EPA to deliver AI-based environmental mapping and localization solutions to
improve the safety and efficacy of disaster response teams," said Holochip CEO Robert Batchko. "Holochip has
been supporting simulation, training, and mission success with next generation AI, SLAM, XR, and imaging
solutions since 2004."

Learn                      more                      about                         the                   recipients
(https://cfpub.epa.gov/ncer_abstracts/index.cfm/fuseaction/recipients.display/rfa_id/718/records_per_page/ALL).

Learn more about EPA's SBIR program (https://www.epa.gov/sbir).

Learn more about the federal SBIR program (http://www.sbir.gov/).

https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-awards-200000-los-angeles-small-businesses-advance-innovative-
environmental

Contact: Michael Brogan, 415/295-9314, brogan.michael@epa.gov

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8436917 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: January 10, 2024


  
