

                                                                                               Page 1 of 3
      Hammerspace Partners with SourceCode and GigaIO to Bring AI Data Processing to Edge Environments
                   Hammerspace Data Orchestration to Enable Distributed GPU Comput....




     Hammerspace Partners with SourceCode and GigaIO to Bring AI Data
    Processing to Edge Environments; Hammerspace Data Orchestration to
                     Enable Distributed GPU Computing
                                                    Business Wire
                                      June 5, 2024 Wednesday 12:01 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1149 words
Dateline: SAN MATEO, Calif.

Body


Hammerspace , the company orchestrating the next data cycle, today announced that its Global Data Platform can
now be used to process, store and orchestrate data in edge compute environments. This innovative solution
combines Gryf, co-designed by SourceCode and GigaIO , the first ever suitcase-sized AI supercomputer, with
Hammerspace's Global Data Platform to bring unprecedented levels of shared AI processing power to any location,
including those operating with limited or no networking infrastructure.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.               View       the       full     release       here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240605771130/en/

Gryf: The First-ever Suitcase-sized AI Supercomputer. Gryf offers unmatched efficiency and flexibility in portable
edge computing solutions. With its lightweight and rugged carbon fiber enclosure, TSA-standard fly-away kit design,
and six slots available for resources, Gryf empowers users to compose a high-performance modular compute
platform anywhere, anytime. (Photo: Business Wire)

This solution is highly relevant for use cases such as capturing large map sets and other types of geospatial data in
tactical edge environments for satellite ground stations and for natural disaster response, and it is an effective way
to transport large amounts of data quickly.

Prior to this solution, organizations would either have to send data to a data center for processing and analysis, or
their edge environments would be limited by the compute resources and storage capacity that non-GPU edge
computing devices with limited scalability could provide. This approach limited the ability to produce relevant results
onsite and was greatly inhibited without a data orchestration solution to move data to GPUs in the data center.

"Our customers and partners consistently tell us that data orchestration is a top priority for their AI workloads," said
Tony Asaro, Chief Strategy and Business Development Officer for Hammerspace. "Our ability to orchestrate data
across remote data centers, clouds and edge environments transparently and online ensures that the data gets to
GPU resources regardless of its physical location. Data orchestration will be the next hot topic in the coming year
and beyond, especially in AI use cases."

                                                                                              Page 2 of 3
     Hammerspace Partners with SourceCode and GigaIO to Bring AI Data Processing to Edge Environments
                  Hammerspace Data Orchestration to Enable Distributed GPU Comput....

Gryf Brings GPU Processing Power to Edge Environments

Gryf is a portable supercomputer in a ruggedized suitcase form factor for rapid AI processing of time-sensitive data
in the field, also referred to as a mobile fly-away kit. SourceCode and GigaIO announced Gryf earlier this quarter,
and it will be available in the third quarter of this year.

Hammerspace Enables High-Speed Processing and Orchestration of Data Across Distributed Environments

Hammerspace can run on a single Gryf appliance alongside other software packages like Cyber, geospatial, and
Kubernetes containerized applications, and other AI analytic packages. Hammerspace's standards-based parallel
file system architecture combines extreme parallel processing speed with the simplicity of NFS, making it ideal for
ingesting and processing the large amounts of unstructured data generated by sensors, drones, satellites, cameras
and other devices at the edge.

Notably, the full benefit of Hammerspace is unlocked when multiple Gryf appliances are deployed across a
distributed edge environment so that Hammerspace can join multiple locations together into a single Global Data
Platform. Hammerspace data orchestration services enable full utilization of all available GPU resources to
accelerate edge processing. This capability is extremely beneficial for AI at the edge, where limited hardware,
bandwidth, and connectivity constraints are common challenges.

Hammerspace data orchestration also simplifies the movement and migration of data when Gryf appliances are
transported back to data centers for additional data analysis and long-term protection.

"GPUs are data hungry, posing a significant challenge when you must enable onsite insight across multiple devices
in a decentralized way, and with possibly inconsistent connectivity," said Matt Ritter, Vice President of Engineering
at SourceCode. "Hammerspace helps solve this problem with efficient orchestration of distributed data and
supercomputer-class data speeds. This also makes Gryf a great example of the SourceCode co-design model:
seamlessly integrating best-of-breed technologies to solve hard problems for customers."

"We are excited to announce the integration of Hammerspace's file system with Gryf, marking a significant leap
forward in our mission to drive edge AI capabilities," said Alan Benjamin, CEO of GigaIO. "This partnership not only
enhances Gryf's capabilities by leveraging Hammerspace's Global Data Platform but also sets a new standard for
data accessibility and orchestration from the edge."

Learn More

Solution Brief: Hammerspace and Gryf for AI Data Processing in Distributed Edge Environments

eBook: Unstructured Data Orchestration for Dummies

Solutions Brief: Data Storage and Mobility for Modern High Performance Computing Workloads

About Hammerspace

Hammerspace is radically changing how unstructured data is used and preserved. Our Global Data Platform unifies
unstructured data across edge, data centers, and clouds. It provides extreme parallel performance for AI, GPUs,
and high-speed data analytics, and orchestrates data to any location and any storage system. This approach
creates a Global Data Platform that eliminates data silos and makes data an instantly accessible resource for users,
applications, and compute clusters, no matter where they are located.

About SourceCode

Trusted for over 30 years and serving over 30 countries, SourceCode is a global provider of co-designed, custom,
certified IT systems for next generation intelligent infrastructure. The company's edge devices, desktop, servers,
storage, clusters, and reference architectures are available via its industry-leading ecommerce platform as well as

                                                                                              Page 3 of 3
     Hammerspace Partners with SourceCode and GigaIO to Bring AI Data Processing to Edge Environments
                  Hammerspace Data Orchestration to Enable Distributed GPU Comput....

its customer-centered engineering-led engagement model. Learn more at www.SourceCode.com or follow on
LinkedIn .

About GigaIO

GigaIO provides workload-defined infrastructure through its universal dynamic memory fabric, FabreX, which
seamlessly composes rack-scale resources and integrates natively into industry-standard tools. The SuperNODE
and Gryf are "impossible servers," fully engineered to "Just Work" for AI and accelerated computing. These
solutions allow users to deploy systems in hours instead of months and run more workloads at lower cost through
higher utilization of resources and more agile deployment. Visit www.gigaio.com , or follow on Twitter (X) and
LinkedIn.

Hammerspace and the Hammerspace logo are trademarks of Hammerspace, Inc. All other trademarks used herein
are the property of their respective owners.
©2024 Hammerspace, Inc. All rights reserved.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240605771130/en/


CONTACT: Hammerspace Press Contact:
IGNITE Consulting, on behalf of Hammerspace
Kim Pegnato, 781-835-7118

Hammerspace@igniteconsultinginc.com


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


Gryf: The First-ever Suitcase-sized AI Supercomputer. Gryf offers unmatched efficiency and flexibility in portable
edge computing solutions. With its lightweight and rugged carbon fiber enclosure, TSA-standard fly-away kit design,
and six slots available for resources, Gryf empowers users to compose a high-performance modular compute
platform anywhere, anytime. (Photo: Business Wire)

AI Data Processing in Distributed Edge Environments with Hammerspace and Gryf (Graphic: Business Wire)


Load-Date: June 5, 2024


  
