

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
                          Embry Riddle Cyber Scholars Score Jobs, Connections at D.C. Event




      Embry Riddle Cyber Scholars Score Jobs, Connections at D.C. Event
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           March 14, 2024 Thursday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1007 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: DAYTONA BEACH, Florida

Body


Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University issued the following news:

When Calla Robison was growing up, she wanted to be like agent Benji Dunn, the computer-savvy sidekick who
employs technology to support superspies and thwart imminent disaster in the "Mission: Impossible" films.

In some sense, the Embry Riddle Aeronautical University senior is well on her way.

Robison -- who has made the dean's list every semester since starting at Embry Riddle in 2020 and is involved in
endeavors including internships at major airlines, product development projects and learning Russian -- is a
recipient of the National Science Foundation (NSF) CyberCorps Scholarship for Service (SFS). As a CyberCorps
scholar, she attended a job fair and networking event this year in Washington, D.C., where she was offered two
positions: with the U.S. Defense Intelligence Systems Agency as an information security IT specialist and with the
Naval Surface Warfare Center as a computer scientist in the Command and Control In-Service Engineering Branch.

"I had three interviews and received two job offers on the spot," Robison said. "I also enjoyed connecting with
students from the other SFS programs across the nation."

Robison traveled to the D.C. event with 10 other Embry Riddle students who had also received CyberCorps
scholarships. The students were selected over the past two years to receive the scholarships as part of a $3.8
million fund granted to Embry Riddle in 2022 to help bolster the cybersecurity workforce, especially in government
agencies. The grants include full tuition and fees to attend Embry Riddle, plus stipends for up to two years, with the
stipulation that the recipients will work in cybersecurity for federal, state, local or tribal governments for the same
duration as their scholarship support.

Dr. Radu Babiceanu, professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and the Embry
Riddle CyberCorps scholarship program principal investigator, led the group at the recent event in Washington,
D.C.

                                                                                                            Page 2 of 3
                        Embry Riddle Cyber Scholars Score Jobs, Connections at D.C. Event

"The event organization is outstanding, with NSF and the Office of Personnel Management officials providing an
exciting agenda and networking opportunities for cybersecurity scholars from all over the country," said Babiceanu.
"The number of federal agencies showcasing their cyber activities and competing to hire the best scholars is
impressive. While some of our students were offered internships and/or permanent positions on the spot, others are
currently training for more formal follow-up interview requests received after the event. The annual event also has
dedicated sessions to brief principal investigators on updates to the federal program and recommendations for
increasing students' chances of landing excellent positions."

A Bridge to Success

Caleb Hall, who was drawn to cybersecurity because of the "cat-and-mouse chase" between "white hats" and
hackers, received a job offer from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency (CISA).

Hall has a lifelong career plan worked out: "I plan to be a 'pen tester,' breaking computer systems to make them
stronger," he said. "Then I'd like to go to the defensive side and work as a cybersecurity engineer. Then I'd finish
my career as a cybersecurity architect, designing the entire cybersecurity strategy and network for a company."

Senior Justin LaZare got hooked on cybersecurity after a high school teacher recommended that he try a game
called CyberStart, and he ended up spending a whole semester break completing the platform's more than 200
cybersecurity challenges. LaZare scored a job at the D.C. event without even having to interview.

"I was offered a job tailored to my interests by the chief data officer of CISA right at the beginning of the career fair,"
LaZare said.

Other Embry Riddle attendees were also offered internships or jobs, while all made valuable professional
connections.

"The NSF CyberCorps SFS job fair connects SFS scholars with potential employers and peers, facilitating
exploration of diverse career paths within government agencies and national labs. The event serves as a
motivational catalyst, with distinguished speakers and SFS Hall of Fame winners inspiring participants to contribute
to national security," said Krishna Sampigethaya, associate professor and chair of the Department of Cyber
Intelligence and Security and one of the scholarship program's co-principal investigators. "Both NSF and OPM
invest considerable effort into offering an exceptional venue for these talented SFS scholars, ensuring the event is a
one-of-a-kind opportunity for them."

For Robison, her long-range career aspirations are evolving somewhat since the days of wanting to be like Benji in
"Mission: Impossible." Her NSF scholarship will help her to continue to a master's degree at Embry Riddle in Data
Science "to pursue a more cyber analytic and artificial intelligence role in the future."

According to Dr. Omar Ochoa, associate professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science and another co-principal investigator, more scholarships will be awarded in the next three years.

Continuing a Trend

Embry Riddle students have a history of success at industry conferences. Last October, for example, over 55
members of the university's Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) attended the 2023 SHPE National
Convention in Utah, and they returned with a total of 43 combined internship, co-op or job offer letters in hand. The
students also conducted a total of 198 interviews at the two-day conference.

"Members attended the career expo, networking events, community gatherings and more, allowing them to connect
with not only the companies in attendance but also with Embry Riddle's SHPE alumni and Prescott's SHPE
chapter," said Gabriel Rodriguez, academic chair of the campus's SHPE chapter.

***

                                                                                                     Page 3 of 3
                      Embry Riddle Cyber Scholars Score Jobs, Connections at D.C. Event

Original text here: https://news.erau.edu/headlines/embry-riddle-cyber-scholars-score-jobs-connections-at-dc-event

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8529607 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 14, 2024


  
