

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 3
                                            Chase Chief Dimon Pens PR Masterpiece




                                Chase Chief Dimon Pens PR Masterpiece
                                                          News Release Wire
                                                April 9, 2024 Tuesday 4:46 PM EST




Copyright 2024 Broadcast Interview Source, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Length: 976 words

Body



JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon has deposed Berkshire Hathaway chief Warren Buffett as the king of 'letter to
the shareholders' writers.

While the letter from the 'Oracle of Omaha' focuses on Wall Street and the economy, the New Yorker takes aim at
the pressing political, cultural and economic matters of the day.

 His recent gem deals with Ukraine, political dysfunction, interest rates, misinformation, AI, governmental
regulation, rising China, diversity & inclusion, climate change, industrialization, taxes, immigration, decision-making,
trade, respect for others, inflation, and national security.

One of my favorite parts of Dimon's letter simply urges Americans to stop screaming at each other.

'We can start by trying to understand other people's and other voters' points of views, even around deeply
emotional topics. We can stop insulting whole classes of voters. We can stop name calling. We can stop blame-
shifting and scapegoating. We can stop being petty.

'Politicians can cease insulting, baiting and belittling each other, which diminishes them and the voter. It has also
become too acceptable for some politicians to say one thing in private and deliver a completely different message in
public. It would also be nice to see some cabinet members from the opposing party. We should also stop degrading
and demonizing American business and American institutions, which are the best in the world, because it erodes
confidence in our very country.'

Dimon believes ending US support for Ukraine goes against everything that this nation is supposed to stand for.

'In perilous periods of history when our allies and other democracies were under serious assault, great American
leaders have inspired the American people ' through words and actions ' to stand up to help and defend them,' he
wrote. 'Staying on the sidelines during battles of autocracy and democracy, between dictatorship and freedom, is
simply not an option for America today.'

Where are those great American leaders? Not only does America have timid politicos staying on the sidelines, it
has Republicans spouting Russian misinformation and talking points.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                     Chase Chief Dimon Pens PR Masterpiece

Meanwhile, the Republican Speaker of the House puts his own job security ahead of doing what's right and living
up to the promise of America. Here's a guy who was plucked from obscurity and now wants to hang on to his job.

Ukraine's struggle is our struggle, according to Dimon. The fall of Ukraine would splinter Pax Americana and would
be a disaster for the whole world.

'It is imperative that our national leaders explain to the American people what is at stake and make a powerful case
' with energy, consistency and clarity ' for our strong enduring commitment to Ukraine's survival for as long as it
takes (and it could take years),' wrote Dimon.

We need a guy like Jamie in House leadership to make the case for Ukraine.

Putting COVID-19 in the rearview mirror. Kimberly-Clark is selling its personal protective equipment business to
Australia's Ansell for $640M.

The deal comes as hospitals and healthcare providers have hefty supplies of protective gloves and masks that were
purchased during the pandemic.

Domestic PPE suppliers have been shutting factories due to overcapacity, leaving the US reliant on foreign
suppliers. Honeywell is thinking about unloading its PPE operation

Ansell said it is happy to be acquiring the K-C business. The company will be sitting pretty during the next pandemic
when hospitals scramble to acquire PPE products from foreign producers.

It will be a re-run of the chaos that occurred at beginning of the COVID-19 outbreak when PPE was not available
due to disrupted supply chains.

K-C suffers from the short-term focus that infects US companies. It looking at the next quarterly financial results,
rather than on a potential national emergency that may happen somewhere down the road.

Nixing Netanyahu '.More than half (56 percent) of Americans oppose Israel's actions in Gaza, according to a
Gallup survey conducted from March 1-20. That's up from 45 percent in a November poll.

Nearly three-quarters (74 percent) of Americans are following news of the Israel-Hamas war closely.

Those eyes are trained on prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who said it's not if'but a matter of when' will Israel
invade Rafah, which houses Hamas fighters among the 1.5M civilian Palestinian refugees.

Preparation for the carnage is in the works. Israel's press reports the government is buying 40K tents to shelter
almost half a million Palestinians who are supposed to be evacuated from Rafah ahead of the ground invasion.

Where are those desperate people supposed to go? And why should they cooperate with the Israeli authorities who
have bombed their homes, killed family members, and penned them up like cattle without access to food and water.

An invasion of Rafah would dramatically increase the death toll of Palestinians, which currently stands at more than
33,200.

It would be the final straw for any American public support of Netanyahu.

About:

O'Dwyer's has been covering public relations, marketing communications and related fields for 53 years. The
company provides the latest news and information about PR firms and professionals, the media, corporations, legal
issues, jobs, technology, and much more through its website, weekly newsletter, monthly magazine, directories,
and guides ( O'Dwyer publications ).

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
                                   Chase Chief Dimon Pens PR Masterpiece

Our editors and writers have decades of experience covering the PR field. They come up with stories and insights
that appear nowhere else.

We're the most quoted source on the PR field by major media because they know we have the answers. Both the
New York Times and Washington Post have referred to O'Dwyer's as the "bible" of PR.

The O'Dwyer Company is based in New York City at 271 Madison Avenue, the same address the company was
founded at in 1968.

http://www.Newsreleasewire.com/303531


Load-Date: April 10, 2024


  
