

                                                                                             Page 1 of 3
     XCCommerce and RELEX Partner to Enable AI-powered Retail Promotion Planning and Optimization with
                     Execution and Management Available for retailers across vertic....




   XCCommerce and RELEX Partner to Enable AI-powered Retail Promotion
  Planning and Optimization with Execution and Management; Available for
  retailers across verticals, unified offering increases promotional ROI up to
                  15% and operational efficiencies up to 75%
                                                    Business Wire
                                      January 11, 2024 Thursday 5:40 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 901 words
Dateline: MONTREAL & ATLANTA

Body

XCCommerce - a leading provider of promotion solutions for retailers across segments - today announced a new
partnership with RELEX Solutions - a provider of unified supply chain and retail planning solutions - to fully integrate
the complex retail promotion process - from end to end. From planning to testing to execution, the XCCommerce
platform combined with RELEX AI-driven pricing and promotion planning capabilities, offers retailers the ability to
rapidly respond to market dynamics and easily manage complex, cross-channel promotions for optimal customer
experiences and more profitable revenue.

With the cost of food and goods reaching historic highs in the U.S., Canada, and internationally, consumers are
looking to get more value and save money. According to Insider Intelligence , 59% of U.S. consumers now buy
items on sale more often and 44% use more coupons. Promotion planning and management is ever more critical
but can be difficult and impact margins using legacy point solutions. The rise in consumers "coupon stacking" - such
as using a mix of paper and digital coupons along with store rebates and loyalty club rewards - makes flawless
execution of complex promotions essential, or risk consumer backlash and loss of promotional revenue up to 40%.

This strategic partnership brings unification of AI-driven pricing and promotion planning and optimization with
complex promotion execution and management, to boost customer loyalty while increasing promotional ROI up to
15% and operational efficiencies up to 75% for retailers.

Key capabilities include:
    •     Single Source of Data Truth: One-stop management for all lifecycle pricing decisions including pricing and
          promotions, regardless of brand, channel, country, currency, or language.
    •     Scalable Delivery for Complex Promotions: Supports multi-level and multi-rule promotions using advanced
          conflict resolution, with ability to scale up to meet real-time demand during heavy shopping times, such as
          Black Friday.

                                                                                            Page 2 of 3
    XCCommerce and RELEX Partner to Enable AI-powered Retail Promotion Planning and Optimization with
                    Execution and Management Available for retailers across vertic....

    •   Flexibility for Price and Promotional Strategies: Customize rules to meet specific objectives, such as
        maintaining margins, price-matching, or markdowns, which can be set at the enterprise level down to a
        category, specific product group, and even a single product in a single location.
    •   Optimized Recommendations: Integrates rule-setting with a data-driven approach, leveraging predictive
        analytics and price elasticity modeling for precise pricing and informed promotion decisions.
    •   Scenario Testing: Gain insights into the impact of price changes on sales, margins, competitive positioning,
        and compliance with internal rules.
    •   Offline Execution: Run accurate promotions at the store level from multiple sources in the event internet
        access is offline, due to severe weather or a natural disaster.

"The unified offering eliminates the need for retailers to cope with disparate, siloed solutions," said Danny Rosenoff,
CEO, XCCommerce. "AI-powered promotion planning and optimization from RELEX are seamlessly ingested by
the XCCommerce platform for execution and management. The result: consistent cross-channel promotions
execution for improved promotional ROI."

RELEX was recently named a Leader in the Forrester Wave: Retail Planning Platforms, Q4 2023. "The partnership
is another step in our commitment to offering a best-in-class unified platform as we now partner with the rich
XCCommerce execution platform to manage promotions across all channels," said Andreas Willgert, General
Manager of Promotions, RELEX.

Meet Us at NRF

XCCommerce is exhibiting at NRF 2024: Retail's Big Show, in booth #1141. To see a platform demo or meet with
our executives, visit our booth, or book your meeting at https://xccommerce.com/event/nrf-2024-retails-big-show/ .

RELEX will also be exhibiting at NRF in booth #4446. To schedule a meeting, see a demo of the new offering or
hear a variety of in-booth presentations, visit our booth, and learn more here: https://hub.relexsolutions.com/nrf .

About XCCommerce, Inc.

For more than 20 years, XCCommerce has provided retailers with an automated platform to manage and analyze
complex promotions, across all traditional and digital commerce channels.

Our mission: to help retailers better compete in dynamic markets by enabling them to easily deliver cross-channel
promotions and a frictionless customer experience for more profitable revenue.

Our innovative solutions are proven with some of North America's largest retailers with international reach, including
LL Bean, Skechers, Academy Sports, Ann Taylor, Lane Bryant, Metro Grocery, Belk, Shoppers Drug Mart, and
Tailored Brands.

XCCommerce, Inc. is a private company headquartered in Montreal, Canada. To learn more about XCCommerce,
visit www.xccommerce.com .

About RELEX

RELEX Solutions provides a unified supply chain and retail planning platform that aligns and optimizes demand,
merchandising, supply chain, operations, and production planning across the end-to-end value chain. We help
retailers and consumer goods companies like Dollar Tree and Family Dollar, Rite Aid, Sprouts Farmers Market,
AutoZone, PetSmart, and The Home Depot drive profitable growth across all sales and distribution channels,
leading to higher product availability, increased sales, and improved sustainability. Learn more at:
https://www.relexsolutions.com/customers/

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240111403946/en/

                                                                                            Page 3 of 3
    XCCommerce and RELEX Partner to Enable AI-powered Retail Promotion Planning and Optimization with
                    Execution and Management Available for retailers across vertic....



CONTACT: PR Contact for XCCommerce
Dan Surtees
VP of Strategy & Business Development

Dan.surtees@xccommerce.com


PR Contact for RELEX Solutions
Jolene Peixoto
Vice President of Communications

Jolene.Peixoto@relexsolutions.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: January 11, 2024


  
