

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 8
                                     LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024




                       LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024
                                                  States News Service
                                                January 26, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 4228 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: DENVER, CO

Body


The following information was released by the National Conference of State Legislatures:

Chair's Corner

By Lindsay Pealer, supervising librarian, office of legislative counsel, State of California

It is an honor and a pleasure to serve as the chair of the Legislative Research Librarians (LRL) professional staff
association for this conference year. It is a privilege to lead such a dedicated and passionate group of
professionals. Together, we will embark on a journey of collaboration, innovation and continuous improvement.

First, let's take a moment to reflect on the enriching experiences we shared at the 2023 NCSL Annual Legislative
Summit. I am pleased to share that our esteemed member, Ingrid Hernquist of New Jersey and former LRL chair,
has graciously contributed summaries of the sessions she attended. Also, several members have generously
shared summaries of the sessions they attended for the 2023 RELACS and LRL professional development
seminar. These insights are included in this newsletter for your reading pleasure.

As we peer into the future, there is much to anticipate. Be on the lookout for webinars that promise to deepen our
understanding of legislative research and library services. One of the highlights of our calendar, the 2024 NCSL
Legislative Summit in Louisville, Ky., is fast approaching, and I am eager to see the vibrant discussions and
connections that will unfold.

Looking forward, our excitement continues to build for the upcoming 2024 LRL Professional Development Seminar
in Raleigh, N.C., which promises to be a valuable opportunity for learning and growth.

Finally, in line with our commitment to fostering collaboration and knowledge exchange, I am excited to introduce
Breezio, our new online networking website. Breezio serves as your dedicated hub for connecting with fellow
members, sharing files and staying informed about the latest trends in state, law and agency libraries. This platform
is designed to be your space for collaboration, idea exchange and staying up to date with the ever-evolving
landscape of our field.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 8
                                 LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024

As we embark on this journey together, let's seize the opportunities for growth, collaboration, and shared success.
Thank you for your dedication to advancing legislative research and library services, and I look forward to the
exciting times ahead.

2024 LRL Executive Committee

These dedicated professionals, representing roles crucial for libraries within state legislatures and agencies, will
lead LRL through the coming year. Their passion for public service and wealth of experiences will contribute to our
association's continued success. Please welcome our LRL executive board:

Chair

Lindsay Pealer | supervising librarian, office of legislative counsel | State of California

Term of Office: 2023-2024

Vice-Chair

Anthony Aycock| legislative librarian, general assembly | State of North Carolina

Term of Office: 2023-2024

Secretary

Dana Combs| librarian/archivist, office of legislative services library| State of New Jersey

Term of Office: 2023-2024

Immediate Past Chair

Jessica Lundgren| director, law and legislative reference library| State of Maine

Term of Office: 2023-2024

Recap: 2023 NCSL Annual Legislative Summit

Ingrid Hernquist, New Jersey

This year, the Summit provided many sessions including those for professional development. The following are
descriptions of sessions that I found particularly enriching. The Summit started with the General Session: "What to
Say When You Can't Say Something Nice."Sarita Maybin, a motivational speaker, provided constructive ways to
say difficult things and she explained how to communicate with kindness, compassion and civility.

Another interesting professional development session entitled "Leading and Managing Strategies for Legislative
Staff" was presented by Eric Robins from the Carl Vinson Institute, University of Georgia. Eric began with the
statement that we need to identify the difference between leadership and management. Leading produces change
with an emphasis on achieving long-term results. An effective leader also focuses on establishing direction, aligning
employees based on the direction, and motivating and inspiring employees to succeed. Managing involves
planning, budgeting, organizing, staffing, control and problem-solving functions, and focuses on short-term results.
Mangers need both the ability to lead and manage.

Managers also need to know the vision and mission of their organization. Vision is what the organization strives to
be. Mission is what the organization does to move toward the vision. By knowing the vision and mission statement,
it helps employees know their role and purpose in order to better align themselves. Team alignment is when the
entire team shares a common vision and goal for the company. Without team alignment the company becomes
misguided and chaotic.

                                                                                                          Page 3 of 8
                                 LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024

Robins continued by explaining that there are four different leadership styles: autocrat (makes sure task is
completed), country club or accommodating (only cares about people and how they feel), indifferent (neither task
nor people), and democrat (needs to know how both people and task are going). An efficient manager needs to be
each of these at certain times.

He also spoke about an employee as a follower. To perform a given task an employee needs both ability and
willingness. Ability refers to knowledge, skills and resources whereas willingness refers to desire, confidence,
motivation and commitment. There are four types of follower readiness: 1. unable and unwilling, 2. unable but
willing, 3. able but unwilling, and 4. able and willing. There are also another four different types of leader styles: 1.
telling: leader makes all the decisions; 2. selling: leader makes decisions with dialogue and/or explanation; 3.
participating: leader and follower make the decisions or follower makes decisions with encouragement from leader;
and 4. delegating: follower makes all the decisions. Eric concluded that the mismatches between these types of
followers and leaders have adverse impacts, which may result in diminished motivation and poor work performance.

Another interesting professional development session was "Institutions that Work: Staff Perceptions on a Strong
Legislative Workplace, moderated by Natalie Wood, NCSL's director of the Center on Legislative Strengthening,
and Jeremy York, legal consultant and president of InvigorateHR.

Wood first discussed the results of a survey that was sent to legislative staff and NCSL staff associations showing
that 83% of respondents were somewhat or very concerned about staff turnover and retention in the legislative
workplace. According to the survey, factors that contributed to turnover included the following:

Poor compensation and benefits.

Lack of workplace flexibility and the ability to work remotely.

Lack of appreciation by management.

Limitations on career advancement.

Heavy workload.

Ineffective work place.

Lack of appreciation by legislators.

York next spoke about employee retention and engagement tactics. For the retention process to work, employees
are "encouraged" to remain for the maximum period. This is beneficial for the organization as well as the
employees. He explained why retention is important:

Cost of turnover is two to three times the employee's salary.

Loss of knowledge.

Interruption of service.

Change leads to more change.

Loss of efficiency.

Customer service can suffer.

Next, he gave the following list of reasons why employees leave:

Lack of connectivity with other employees and managers.

Job is not what the employee expected.

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 8
                                LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024

Lack of growth opportunity.

Lack of appreciation.

Lack of trust and support.

Stress from overwork.

Low compensation.

New job offers.

Go back to school.

He next discussed how employers could retain employees. He said it is important for employers to build a
relationship with employees and keep them engaged. He defined employee engagement as the emotional
commitment that the employee has to the organization and its goals. This emotional commitment means engaged
employees care about their work and company and they will do more than the bare minimum.

Jeremy next discussed the difference between employee engagement vs. employee satisfaction. Employee
satisfaction is when the employee only cares about being personally happy or content. Employee engagement
means the employee actually cares about the organization. Employee engagement is important because it
increases employee retention, productivity, morale, and creativity. It is important for managers to build engagement
by understanding what people want, by providing support, by providing resource tools for other managers, and by
encouraging a culture of collaboration.

He gave the following current employee engagement trends:

Work-life balance.

Flexibility.

Culture of care and compassion

Appreciation and recognition. 5. Diversity.

Career growth.

Mental wellness.

Inclusion.

Work that is interesting and challenging.

In conclusion, he gave the following best practices for managers:

Earn trust by being open and vulnerable by admitting mistakes and listening to feedback.

Have regular conversations with employees. What is going well and what is not? What can I do to help you be your
best?

Learn employee's passions and strengths and figure out how to let employees use their job to be creative by
expanding job descriptions.

Look for developmental opportunities for employees and support them in their growth.

Show appreciation by asking employees what is meaningful to them.

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 8
                                     LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024

Another professional development session I attended was "Cultivating Your Craft: Five Principles of an Effective
Staffer," moderated by Angela Andrews, NCSL professional development senior partner and Jessica Hoffman,
NCSL Training Specialist. They discussed the following five principles needed to be an effective staffer:

Know your purpose. Ask yourself the following: What's your impact? What motivates you? How do you make a
difference in your current role? What do you love about working for the legislature?

Respect the institution. Take pride in your work and perform at a high level by showing professionalism, civility and
decorum.

Respect in action. Think about an action you do that shows respect for your legislature.

Be a lifelong legislative learner.

Maintain your credibility.

During the"Legislative Staff Breakfast: Working Together Despite Differences,"speaker and CEO of Darcy Luoma
Coaching and Consulting stated that a team assessment needs to be done in each workplace. Everyone sees the
same thing differently and most people are not aware of each other's different viewpoints. She introduced the
concept of "thoughtfully fit," where you pause, think and act. Being thoughtfully fit in every situation gets results
instead of regrets. A thoughtfully fit learner creates a culture that can supercharge the team's success. The
following are three factors needed for a team to succeed:

Factor 1: Fear factor. It's not about eliminating fear but about making fear feel safe and secure. Factor 2: Fight
factor. The strongest teams have conflict in a place where it is safe to disagree. Factor 3: Fact factor. Team needs
to embrace differences. Other interesting and useful sessions included "Excavating Obscure Research and
Sources." During this session, the presenters provided different sources that are useful for research. When looking
at new research requests they advised to see what other states are doing. In addition, check networks such as
NCSL. They next presented useful sources by topic. I will be going through the OLS Bookmarks Page to see which
sources should be added.

During "The Long and Short from the Supreme Court" session, the presenters looked at Supreme Court cases that
will affect state governments. These cases included redistricting, free speech, clean water, tax debt, race as a
factor of college admissions and student loans.

Recap: 2023 RELACS and LRL Professional Development Seminar

Ingrid Hernquist, New Jersey

AI in Legal Research

Joey Kerber presented "AI in Legal Research"from Westlaw Project Management. Kerber began by stating that in
March 2023 Goldman Sachs predicts that AI will replace 44% of legal employees. The Dartmouth Conference
coined the term Artificial Intelligence in 1956. Since then, there have been active and inactive cycles of AI
initiatives. The inactive cycles are termed winter. AI Winter 1 1974-1980 occurred mainly due to the lack of
computing power. AI Winter 2 1987-1993 governments pulled back their investments because of fear of lack of
returns. Kerber reasoned that this time is different. The primary difference between Generative AI and Traditional AI
lies in their objectives and functioning. While Traditional AI aims to perform specific tasks based on predefined rules
and patterns, Generative AI goes beyond this limitation and strives to create entirely new data that resembles
human-created content. Generative AI models look at all words in the sentence and consider their contextual
relationships. However, there are new emergent behaviorsmore complex and unexpected. The incorrect information
called hallucinations and the errors may not be fully explainable. Court cases have deemed that the information
needs to be verified by humans. here are also privacy concerns. Kerber next spoke about Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG), an AI framework for retrieving facts from an external knowledge base to ground large language
models (LLMs) on the most accurate, up-to-date information and to give users insight into LLMs' generative
process. RAG provides techniques used to reduce hallucinations and errors. Give it a query that has parameters

                                                                                                           Page 6 of 8
                                 LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024

and that has already been pre-processed. "Ask it nicely and it will give better results." Westlaw attorneys act as
editors, the content is maintained and updated by humans, and the information is within a closed database.

Molly Niehls, Minnesota

Vagueness and Ambiguity in Drafting

Jason Kuenle from Minnesota's Office of the Revisor of Statutes presented on the pitfalls of ambiguity and
vagueness in bill drafting and offered some best practices to avoid these common tendencies. He started with a
helpful discussion of these terms, which aren't synonymous. An "ambiguous" sentence presents the reader with two
possible meanings to choose from. If I told you "She's the mother of an infant daughter who works 12 hours a day,"
you might wonder whether it's the mother or the infant who works 12 hours a day. Addressing ambiguity often
requires using more words. Lists, definitions and breaking things into smaller sentences are other strategies that
can help. By contrast, a "vague" sentence requires the reader to ponder the boundaries of a word or phrase. When
a statute requires that forklift drivers "must operate in a safe manner," what exactly does the phrase "safe manner"
encompass? Kuenle's suggestion to bill drafters is to be intentional about any gray area you create, and to try to
anticipate any legal and political problems that might result from vague language. Though in the end, you can't draft
around all vagueness!

Dana Combs, New Jersey

Preparing for and Responding to Disasters

One of the excellent sessions I attended during this year's RELACS-LRL Joint PDS in Minnesota was "Preparing for
and Responding to Disasters: An Introduction." Presented by Minnesota Historical Society Conservation Outreach
Specialist Megan Brakob-Narvey, this session was particularly timely for the New Jersey Office of Legislative
Services Library as this is something we have been developing on and off, but never quite got around to
completing. Brakob-Narvey opened her session by explaining that a disaster plan is a written set of guidelines on
how to respond to emergencies as well as a training tool that is most useful when practiced regularly to the point of
familiarity for all staff members. While it is important to prepare a disaster plan in advance so it can be practiced
and ready to go into effect at a moment's notice, the best disaster plan for a library is the one that is specific to that
library's collection and location. Another useful benefit of the disaster plan, according to Brakob-Narvey, is that not
only can it help libraries be prepared ahead of time for a big emergency but can also help manage the smaller ones
as well such as leaking pipes or mold outbreaks, and large-scale non-emergency projects such as moves and
construction work.

Next, she went through the contents of a disaster plan in general. This includes the types and scopes of potential
emergencies, institutional information, personnel and contact information, procedures to follow based on the
emergency, designated personnel and procedures to assess damage as well as recommended priorities for
recovery and finally specific treatment procedures for damaged collections. She also discussed the various
disaster planning resources that are available online for little to no cost and how best to practice executing a
disaster plan with tabletop exercises to run through the plan systematically based on a theoretical disaster so that
all staff members can be familiar enough to execute it in case of an actual disaster. She also discussed different
disaster recovery companies that an institution can contract with ahead of time without having to commit financially
unless an emergency occurs. Finally, she went over the merits of creating a disaster response kit, which is an
easily accessible and continually updated collection of tools, equipment and other materials set aside to respond to
a collection emergency.

Chelsey Kim, Hawaii

LRL Capitol Area Library Panel: Library Marketing and Outreach

After a tour of the Minnesota Law Library and the Minnesota Legislative Reference Library, we had a panel session
at the Minnesota Senate Building titled "LRL Capitol Area Library Panel: Library Marketing and Outreach." The
libraries within the Minnesota Capitol area are Minnesota Law Library, the Department of Employment and

                                                                                                           Page 7 of 8
                                 LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024

Economic Development Library, Minnesota Legislative Reference Library, and the Minnesota Revenue Library.
Even though these libraries serve different patrons, there were similarities in their approach to marketing and
outreach. Here are the common themes I noticed throughout the panel:

Visibility:Actively participate within your organization. Bring foot traffic to your library by offering cake to celebrate
library week. Change your Zoom or Teams background to the library so people know your organization. Make
"swag" for patrons like a bookmark celebrating your 50thanniversary or a pen with your library information.

Reach out to others:If there are new employees, invite them to your library to get acquainted with your collection.
Visit other types of libraries on their staff day to talk about your collection and the services you provide. See if you
can offer a free CLE session at a bar association meeting.

Make your presence known in their inbox:If the head of an organization sends out a weekly newsletter, see if you
can include highlights of your collection. Customize library alerts or newsletters for patrons to subscribe to. Reach
out to research offices to remind them of the assistance you can provide.

Of course, every library is different and what may work for one may not work for another. But I thoroughly enjoyed
this panel and found a few things I wouldn't mind trying at my library.

Jessica Lundgren, Maine

Minnesota Twins Stadium Tour

On Tuesday, Sept. 19, LRL pre-con attendees were treated to a behind-the-scenes tour of Target Field, home of
the Minnesota Twins Major League Baseball team. The tour was led by long-time Twins curator and tour director
Clyde "The Guide" Doepner, who has been involved with the team since the mid-1960s. One of the few (if not the
only) curators employed by a Major League Baseball team, Doepner collects items from players and others that
mark landmarks in the team's history or a player's career. Sometimes, his collection strategy requires his intuition of
when a player will make it big in the majors. He maintains dozens of display cases throughout the stadium, as well
as a large storage area. Doepner also has an enormous personal collection of baseball memorabilia which began
with a now-legendary dumpster dive when the Twins moved from the Metropolitan Stadium to the Hubert H.
Humphrey Metrodome in 1982.

The tour started at the players and staff entrance at the back of the stadium. In the belly of the building, we stopped
to see the conference room where team officials watch the MLB draft, a VIP area, giant vats of concession stand
beer, field vehicles, and the opposing teams' locker room. At field level, we got a close look at the opposing team's
dugout as Twins groundskeepers built up the pitchers mound and evened out the base paths. We had a great view
of the stadium from the exclusive Budweiser Roof Deck and the press box behind home plate. Doepner finished his
tour in the Legends Club showing off several of his custom displays and the group stopped for a photo in front of a
wall-sized mural of Hall of Famer Kirby Puckett, who played his entire career with the Twins and helped lead them
to World Series titles in 1987 and 1991.

Clyde Deopner was generous with his time and charismatic in his storytelling. This write-up cannot do justice to his
place in Minnesota Twins history!

Elaine Settergren, Minnesota

Statutory Interpretation: Through the Lense of Legislative History

If you've ever played the word game "Connections," then Paul Thissen, an associate justice of the Minnesota
Supreme Court, would say that you have had a taste of what it's like to think like a judge. In the game, you group
words by topic. Judges think in terms of category and hierarchy. Every word has its place.

Throughout his presentation, Thissen explained how judges think, read and interpret statutes. His intended
audience was bill drafters, but he discussed many topics that could also be helpful for librarians.

                                                                                                           Page 8 of 8
                                 LRL NEWSLINE | WINTER 2024 TUE, 23 JAN 2024

Thissen relies on legislative history quite a bit even if the history does not make it into his opinion or dissent.
Legislative history research helps him gain context on the definitions of words, hierarchy of the statute section, and
how the statute section has changed over time. He relies on anything and everything that's available: statute
archives, nonpartisan staff memos or summaries, journals, bill text, committee hearing materials, audio or video,
news articles, the revisor's manual and more.

In addition to legislative history, he relies on grammar and definitions. If the definition is not defined in the statute,
he will rely on dictionaries. Nearly a third of all opinions in 2019 cited a dictionary definition.

Christopher Melancon, Louisiana

Copyright and Related Issues in Legislative Research

The session "Copyright and Related Issues in Legislative Research" was presented by Nancy Sims, copyright
program librarian with University of Minnesota Libraries. She opened the session by surveying the audience on its
knowledge of copyright law and discussed how copyright is not available for U.S. Government works (17 U.S.C.
105). They belong to everyone. Database vendors, such as Westlaw, do not own the underlying government work,
only the features added to the document. This can include something as simple as adding page numbers.

She centered the rest of the presentation around these questions:

Are state government documents under copyright?

Are state statutes under copyright?

Can a legislator distribute copies of an article in a committee hearing?

Can a library make a copy of an out-of-print book of particular legislative interest?

First, copyright is available to state governments. Since copyright is currently automatic and does not require
registration, much state government information is protected by copyright law. However, state statutes and
constitutions can allow for differing levels of public access.

Second, she shared that states generally allow free access to copies of statutes, although this is an evolving area.
In creating legislation, there may be an implied public license for use. She cautions, however, that there are less
clear scenarios. For example, are states obligated to provide copies of commercial/building codes produced by
industrial organizations? She suggests that if a state references these codes, then it may have to provide access.

Third, copyright laws allow libraries with collections open to the public or outside researchers to copy works for
preservation, replacement, ILL and other reasons. Another limitation on copyright protections, fair use, may apply
when a legislator shares copies of an article in committee hearings. The fact that a legislator who distributes a copy
of a document in a committee hearing commonly does so for noncommercial purposes lends itself to fair use.
Sharing links to the article avoids potential violations of copyright but is not as practical in this setting.

Sims stressed that copyright is not always the prevailing factor. The contracts we agree to with database vendors
include terms of use that control what we can do with these documents. There are very few cases, she said, where
the copyright statutes have held to preempt contractual agreement. She suggested legislative libraries should
negotiate, if possible, the specific terms of use with vendors. Pay attention to the four corners of your contract with
the understanding that sales reps may unknowingly misrepresent the contract.


Load-Date: January 27, 2024


  
