

                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
              UNC-CHAPEL HILL ENVIRONMENT EXPERTS AVAILABLE FOR EARTH DAY INTERVIEWS




UNC-CHAPEL HILL ENVIRONMENT EXPERTS AVAILABLE FOR EARTH DAY
                        INTERVIEWS
                                                 States News Service
                                               April 18, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 573 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: CHAPEL HILL, N.C.

Body


The following information was released by the University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill:

University Communications , Thursday, April 18th, 2024

In celebration of Earth Day, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill experts are available to discuss the most
pressing climate change challenges experienced in North Carolina and across the globe, as well as innovative
solutions. These top experts can address a variety of topics including:

Climate change in North Carolina and how Carolina is part of the solution

Mike Piehler, Ph.D., is a professor, director of the UNC Institute for the Environment, chief sustainability officer and
special assistant to the chancellor for sustainability at UNC-Chapel Hill.

Air quality

Poor air quality can stem from a variety of sources, including pollution, emissions from traffic and industry, fires and
gas or oil flares. Sarav Arunachalam, Ph.D., and William Vizuete, Ph.D, are available to discuss the sources of poor
air quality, why good air quality is important, which communities are most impacted by poor air quality and solutions
to improve it.

Heat

Angel Hsu, Ph.D., has done research on heat, including urban heat stress and which communities are most heat
burdened. She's also the founder and director of the Data-Driven EnviroLab and can discuss climate and AI and
climate policy more broadly.

Hurricanes

                                                                              Page 2 of 2
          UNC-CHAPEL HILL ENVIRONMENT EXPERTS AVAILABLE FOR EARTH DAY INTERVIEWS

North Carolina is susceptible to hurricanes, particularly in coastal areas. Rick Luettich, Sc.D., is available to discuss
Carolina hurricane season, including storm and flooding prediction. He can also discuss how our changing climate
may be changing extreme weather events and their impacts in coastal Carolina.

Impacts on animals

Climate change has impacts on animals' environments, foods sources and behaviors. Paul J. Taillie, Ph.D., can
discuss animal responses to extreme weather events. Allen Hurlbert, Ph.D., can provide information on changing
bird and insect populations. Finally, Janet Nye, Ph.D. is available to share how warming oceans affect fish and
fisheries.

Social and economic impacts of experiencing a climate disaster

A serious climate change weather event can leave many long-lasting impacts on individuals and communities.
Miyuki Hino, Ph.D., can provide information on the social and economic impacts on a community following a climate
event.

PFAS

PFAS are widely used and long-lasting chemicals that have been linked to harmful health impacts on reproduction,
thyroid function, the immune system and the liver. Frank Leibfarth, Ph.D., is working to remove PFAS from North
Carolina's water supply through his innovative research. He's available to share information about this work, as well
as the EPA's new PFAS recommendations. Leibfarth can also speak to plastics recycling.

Renewable energy and electric vehicles

Noah Kittner, Ph.D., studies energy systems at multiple scales, from regional and international power grids to
community-owned micro-grids and household energy dynamics, including energy poverty in the US. He also has
knowledge on electric vehicle charging and battery energy storage.

Well water

Many North Carolina residents, particularly people who live in rural communities, are dependent on private well
water. Wells need proper testing and maintenance to stay free from contaminants that impact people's health.
Kathleen Gray, Ph.D., is available to discuss the state of well water across North Carolina and work being done to
ensure safe drinking water.


Load-Date: April 19, 2024


  
