

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 5
   New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate Interviews, Airing Episode 591 on the Fox Business Network,
                              Tonight Monday, August 26, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT




 New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate Interviews, Airing Episode
  591 on the Fox Business Network, Tonight Monday, August 26, 2024, at
                               10:30 PM PT
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              August 26, 2024 Monday 6:15 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 3070 words

Body


NEW YORK, Aug. 26, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- FMW Media's New to The Street, a nationally broadcasted
business TV show, announces episode 591, airing on the Fox Business Network tonight, Monday, August 26, 2024,
at 10:30 PM PT.

New to The Street's 591st TV episode line-up features the following five (5) Corporate interviews:

1). Biopharmaceutical - Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.'s (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP) David Luci, President/CEO.

2). "Game Changers" segment interview with Iagon's (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG) Dr. Navjit Dhaliwal, CEO.

3). "Game Changers" segment interview with GreenLite Ventures, Inc.'s (OTC: GRNL) ($GRNL) (No Limit
Technology Holdings, Inc.) Rafael Groswirt, CEO

4). Sustainable Solutions - The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) Tony Raynor, CEO and
Founder.

5). "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – The Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO,
Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®).

Episode 591

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 5
  New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate Interviews, Airing Episode 591 on the Fox Business Network,
                             Tonight Monday, August 26, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

From the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio, New to The Street's TV Host Jane King talks with David Luci, the
President/CEO of Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP) ("Company"), a late-stage
biopharmaceutical Company that publicly trades on the NASDAQ market. ACXP is developing a new class of small
molecular antibiotics for the most common life-threatening bacterial infections. Recently, the Company completed
its FDA Phase 2 clinical trials on its Ibezapolstat drug, a treatment for patients with Clostridioides difficile Infections
(CDI). Management is now meeting with the FDA regarding the steps necessary to complete the Phase 3 clinical
trial on the drug. Concurrently, ACXP is meeting with the FDA on the drug manufacturing processes, which must
meet the government's standards. Management remains confident that Ibezapolstat can be manufactured and
inventoried before the conclusion of 2024. The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has issued a
patent because the drug can, in treated patients, maintain and restore microbiome bacteria. Most pharmaceuticals
destroy the gut's microbiome bacteria, which is the major cause of diseases and reinfections, typically caused by
competitor drugs for CDI. The issued patent remains valid until June 2042. The Company is working globally with
several entities seeking partnerships and other collaborations on non-dilutive financing arrangements for the
funding needs of the FDA Phase 3. The objective is to get funded without using ACXP's stock, which will not dilute
shareholders' value. David started a program to work with college students, being a mentor to assist students in
bringing their scientific ideas to market. With the FDA and USPTO continuing to provide timely approvals, the
Company has shown that its Ibezapolstat drug effectively treats CDI with no reinfections. The on-screen QR code is
available during the show; download or visit Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - https://www.acurxpharma.com/.

New to The Street airs its "Game Changers" segment with TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry, who talks
with Dr. Navjit Dhaliwal ("Nav"), CEO of Iagon (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG). As a decentralized cloud storage platform
that leverages blockchain technology, Iagon is disrupting the data storage industry. As "Game Changers," Iagon
redefines the concept of data storage and transmission, providing individuals and organizations with security and
transparency. The typical data storage business model has information on a single server at a location. Many Big
Tech platforms providing this centralized service have had many server cybersecurity breaches, with data stolen.
The Iagon approach is uniquely different; it is a decentralized platform with enhanced security features offered
through the blockchain. Because the decentralization of data allows for information to be stored globally on many
different nodes and servers, data is more secure, diminishing the chances of data hacking. Iagon's platform fully
complies with the needs of many industries and agencies, which require secure and transparent data platforms
under governmental rules, regulations, and laws. All end-users have complete control of stored data files. Another
benefit is cost savings. Since Iagon does not need expensive infrastructure and servers, it can offer services at a
fraction of the cost compared to centralized systems. Iagon allows individuals and organizations to bring their
storage capacities onto a decentralized AI platform and receive IAG coins as a reward. The Company has two new
product offerings, the "Cyclone" and "May Net Compute," which provide individuals and organizations easy access
to a decentralized data storage and transmission platform while offering security and transparency. As "Game
Changers," Iagon's AI blockchain decentralized data storage ecosystem continues to grow, giving onboard end-
users complete data control with advanced data storage and security methods. The on-screen QR code is available
during the show; download or visit Iagon - https://iagon.com/.

New to The Street's "Game Changers" segment interview is with Rafael Groswirt, CEO of GreenLite Ventures, Inc.
(OTC: GRNL) ($GRNL) ("Company"). TV Host Ana Berry talks with Rafel talk about the Company's "Game
Changers" in the digital sports and finance industries. Recently, the GRNL completed the merger and acquisition of
No Limit Technology Holdings, Inc. ("No Limit'), a business in the sports betting and cryptocurrency markets. Rafael
explains the process and the eventual success of the merger and gives an overview of the value proposition of
being a public entity. Management is looking to advance its capabilities in the digital sports betting arena with a
decentralized ecosystem. Rafael believes GRNL has a huge competitive advantage over its competitors through
blockchain technology, cryptocurrency, AI, and other technologies. With new business developments with multiple
digital platforms while looking to launch media channels, No Limit believes it can revolutionize and disrupt the
industry while giving end-users a new and unique fantasy sports betting experience that is otherwise unavailable on
competitors' platforms. GRNL's digital sports and financial platform are "Game Changers." The on-screen QR code
is available during the show; download or visit No Limit Technology Holdings, Inc. -
https://www.nolimitfantasysports.com/.

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 5
  New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate Interviews, Airing Episode 591 on the Fox Business Network,
                             Tonight Monday, August 26, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

The Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTCQX: SGTM) ($SGTM) ("Company")Tony Raynor, CEO and Founder, is
with New to The Street's TV Host Jane King. Talking about the Company from the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio,
viewers get an insight into SGTM's environmentally sustainable solutions. Tony informs viewers about the
Company's partnership with Jimmy Houston, founder of Jimmy Houston Outdoors, a TV Host, and a Social Media
influencer, who has an extensive media and online network and is known for product and service endorsements.
With millions of followers and a highly rated show on ESPN, Jimmy always promotes a sustainable agenda to
protect fish and wildlife. SGTM and Jimmy will work together to promote SGTM's sustainable product lines and offer
a platform for SGTM to launch new goods and services. SGTM creates, produces, and sells sustainable, chemical-
free products by converting waste into high-value, nutrient-rich products. New products forthcoming will focus on
the health and well-being of livestock and wildlife. Jimmy offers SGTM a platform to endorse current and future
products. Tony informs viewers that the Company is producing a media program that will air on Bloomberg TV as a
"Bloomberg Original" series. The show will focus on global problems, educating many on how sustainable solutions
can restore and replenish the Earth. Influential leaders and businesspeople will be on the show, highlighting current
global environmental concerns and the solutions available to make people, plants, and animals healthier; a healthy
planet makes for healthy inhabitants. SGTM is soon rolling out new product lines, becoming available at "Big Box"
retailers. The Company has a YouTube channel with many informative videos about the Company and its
sustainable initiatives and products. The on-screen QR code is available during the shows: The Sustainable Green
Team, Ltd. - https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/.

New to The Street airs its "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – The Weekly Hack" segment. Alain Ghiai, an
internationally acclaimed internet privacy expert and the CEO of Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE:
SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®) talks with TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry about another
hack at AT&T. It appears that hackers stole at least six months of its customers' calls and text message records.
AT&T used a 3rd party cloud base database to store these records, which became compromised. Unfortunately,
five to seven of the largest technology companies control the world's data storage and transmissions. One of those
is CrowdStrike, which recently had a significant outage, shutting down thousands of its customers' access to
programs and data. CrowdStrike program failure completely shut down Delta Airlines, frustrating passengers and
employees. Sekur is different, providing close-loop access with military encrypted programs on the Company's own
and controlled servers in Switzerland. Individuals, businesses, and governmental agencies can all benefit from
subscribing to Sekur. To avoid cyberhackers' attempts, subscribers send information through the Company's
SekurVPN, SekurMail, and SekurMessenger services, giving end-users private and secure electronic
communications. SekurMail, with SekurSend/SekurReply options, sends a link to a recipient to open an email in the
closed loop encrypted military platform. The service protects both the subscriber and the recipient, even if the
recipient is not a Sekur subscriber. SekurMessenger offers many secure options that prevent text messages from
appearing on open BIG Tech platforms. Using SekurMail with the Company's SekurVPN adds another layer of
encryption that protects its subscribers' IP addresses and website traffic information. Any entity under regulatory
scrutiny can comply with Sekur services. The services are available through iOS and Android apps, and those not
interested in downloading apps can use the Company's web-based platforms. Alan states that being more invisible
on the net and shrinking your cybersecurity footprint should most likely lessen the chances of becoming a hacked
victim. Under Swiss law, your IP address is private property protected by stringent regulations. The Company never
tracks your devices, never sells data, doesn't use 3rd party platforms, never asks for phone numbers, and keeps
one's internet traffic private and secure. PROMO CODE: PRIVACY is now available, giving 15% savings toward
monthly and yearly subscriptions, and the discount will remain active for five years. Viewers, please tune in next
time for the newest cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security– Weekly Hack" segment. The on-
screen QR code is available during the shows to download more info or visit Sekur Private Data, Ltd. –
https://sekurprivatedata.com/, http:/sekur.com/ and https://sekur.com/en/vpn. Privacy has arrived!

About Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP):

Acurx Pharmaceuticals,             Inc.(NASDAQ:            ACXP)               ($ACXP)                is a late-
stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing a new class of small-molecule antibiotics for difficult-to-
treat bacterial infections. The Company's approach is to develop antibiotic candidates with a Gram-positive

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 5
  New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate Interviews, Airing Episode 591 on the Fox Business Network,
                             Tonight Monday, August 26, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

selective spectrum (GPSS®) that blocks the active site of the Gram-positive specific bacterial enzyme DNA
polymerase IIIC (pol IIIC), inhibiting DNA replication and leading to Gram-positive bacterial cell death. Its R&D
pipeline includes antibiotic product candidates that target Gram-positive bacteria, including Clostridioides difficile,
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE), and drug-resistant
Streptococcus pneumoniae (DRSP) - https://www.acurxpharma.com/.

About Iagon (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG):

Iagon (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG) was founded in 2017 in Hamar, Norway, because people need to control their data.
The idea started as an attempt to solve significant issues related to how healthcare data is stored, with modern
solutions severely lacking transparency for individuals at a national and international level. The protocol will allow
storage providers to earn rewards by trading their excess storage to resource consumers on a marketplace at a
transparent price while ensuring data privacy, security, and accessibility. Its token-based economy is based on
computer, server, and data center owners who join the storage and processing power grids. In return for sharing the
capabilities of their machine, they will be granted Iagon tokens that can be traded back to fiat money, while any
party who wishes to utilize their capabilities will purchase tokens to distribute to the parties that provide their
services to the blockchain grid - https://iagon.com/.

About GreenLite Ventures, Inc. (OTC: GRNL) ($GRNL)/ No Limit Technology Holdings, Inc.:

Greenlite Ventures, Inc. (OTC: GRNL) ($GRNL) acquired No Limit Technology Holdings, Inc., a fantasy sports
betting platform. With the use of AI and cryptocurrency, the Company's NoLimitCoin (CRYPTO: NLC2) offers a
unique payment platform for end-users on its online gaming application. End-users making wagers on No Limit's
fantasy sports platform bet on the best possible outcome on players' performances. Winners who make successful
wagers are rewarded based on performances - https://www.nolimitfantasysports.com

About Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM):

Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) is a leading Company in climate reversing technologies, a
provider of sustainable solutions to improve environmental health, promote sustainable practices, and deliver eco-
friendly products and services. SGTM aims to make significant contributions to global sustainability; learn more by
visiting the Company website, https://thesustainablegreenteam.com/, SGTM's YouTube Channel, Corporate
Bloomberg      TV     commercial    -   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_0rLESvJJ0,        corporate      video  -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJ7Dp9Coi88&t=1s                and           SGTM's              Blogs           -
https://thesustainablegreenteam.com/sgtm-blog.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About New to The Street:

New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running US and International
sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street." Since 2009, New to
The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S . television networks. The Nielsen-rated
and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US and international markets.
FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg and the FOX Business Network as sponsored

                                                                                                  Page 5 of 5
  New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate Interviews, Airing Episode 591 on the Fox Business Network,
                             Tonight Monday, August 26, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form paid
programming - https://newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all companies' filings
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT: New to The Street Monica Brennan monica@NewtoTheStreet.com                     https://newtothestreet.com/ 1-
917-330-2564

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement        is       available                           at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6bb75ce3-639a-4971-9114-4a2c3a0d2893

New to The Street Announces its Five Corporate Interviews, Airing Episode 591 on the Fox Business Network,
Tonight Monday, August 26, 2024, at 10:30 PM PT

Episode 591: 1).Acurx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: ACXP) ($ACXP) 2). Iagon (CRYPTO: IAG) ($IAG) 3).
GreenLite Ventures, Inc. (OTC: GRNL) ($GRNL) (No Limit Technology Holdings, Inc.) 4). The Sustainable Green
Team, Ltd. (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) 5). Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0)
($SWISF) (Sekur®) - www.newtothestreet.com


Load-Date: August 26, 2024


  
