

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 9
                                  Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024




                   Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            March 9, 2024 Saturday 8:31 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3738 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(TNSres) -- The U.S. Census Bureau issued the following tip sheet (No. 5) on March 8, 2024:

***

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

***

2030 Census Preparation

Census Scientific Advisory Committee 2024 Spring Meeting

The U.S. Census Bureau will host the Census Scientific Advisory Committee Meeting March 14-15. Experts and
representatives of various organizations from across the nation will attend the virtual meeting to discuss census
programs, operations and innovative processes.

Initial Strategies for 2030 Census Preparations

The Census Bureau plans to release five strategy documents outlining how it plans to carry out the next decennial
census. The strategies cover the Census Bureau's approach for conducting a complete count, designing
operations, developing the IT solution, sourcing contracts and engaging with stakeholders for the 2030 Census.
(Tentatively scheduled for release in March.)

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024

***

American Community Survey

New Report on the Nation's Foreign-Born Population

The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled to release new data products highlighting select demographic and
socioeconomic characteristics of the nation's foreign-born population. The Foreign-Born Population 2022 report
compares 2010 and 2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year estimates to provide insight into the changing
composition of the foreign-born population in the United States. The Highlights of the Foreign-Born Population data
visualization displays 2018-2022 ACS 5-year estimates about the foreign-born population at various levels of
geography (including national, state and county). (Tentatively scheduled for release in April.)

***

Demographic

County Population and Components of Change and Population of Metropolitan and Puerto Rico Municipios
Estimates: July 1, 2023

Internet tables and detailed downloadable files will show annual population estimates for county population and
demographic components of population change, metropolitan and micropolitan statistical area population, and
Puerto Rico municipio population since the 2020 Census. (Scheduled for embargo starting March 12; public release
March 14.)

New 2022 Congressional Election Voting Report

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new report, Voting and Registration in the Election of November 2022,
based on data from the 2022 Current Population Survey (CPS) Voting and Registration Supplement. The report
highlights patterns in voter turnout over time among the citizen voting-age population (CVAP) and explores
demographic groups over- and under-represented in the 2022 congressional elections compared to the CVAP as a
whole. (Tentatively scheduled for release March.)

Parental Mortality Brief

The U.S. Census Bureau will be releasing a new research brief on parental mortality based on the 2022 Survey of
Income and Program Participation (SIPP). This report presents national level statistics for the percentage of people
who lost a mother or father and how these estimates varied by age and race/ethnicity. (Tentatively scheduled for
release in March.)

Census Bureau Releases New U.S. Population Estimates by Age and Sex

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release a downloadable file containing estimates of the nation's resident
population by sex and single year of age as of July 1, 2023. In the coming months, the Census Bureau will release
additional population estimates for cities as well as population estimates by age, sex, race and Hispanic origin for
the nation, states, metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas, and counties. (Tentatively scheduled for release
April 11.)

Household Pulse Survey

The experimental Household Pulse Survey (HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4 topics include employment status, spending, food security, housing, health, mental health, natural
disasters, inflation and spending, vaccine receipt, COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, shortage of critical products,
disability, income, social connection and child care arrangements. Data collection for phase 4.0 began January 9,

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024

with data dissemination, including detailed data tables and public-use files on a monthly basis. (Scheduled for
release March 21 and April 18.)

***

Economic

New Annual Integrated Economic Survey Set to Launch

The U.S. Census Bureau will launch its newest survey, the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES), beginning
in March. This new program replaces seven annual economic surveys and streamlines reporting by consolidating
all necessary questions into one convenient survey. Companies selected to participate in the AIES will receive a
survey invitation in March of 2024.

The statistics created from collected data will provide key measures of economic activity, including the only
comprehensive national and subnational data on business revenues, expenses and assets on an annual basis. For
more information on the AIES, visit census.gov/aies.

2021 Nonemployer Statistics

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release the 2021 Nonemployer Statistics (NES). This annual series provides
subnational economic data for businesses that have no paid employees or payroll, are subject to federal income tax
and have receipts of $1,000 or more ($1 or more for the Construction sector). The data consist of the number of
businesses and total receipts by industry and are available for approximately 470 industries at detailed geographic
levels, including national, state, county, metropolitan/micropolitan statistical areas and combined statistical areas.
(Scheduled for release March 14.)

Cannabis Excise Sales Tax Collections: 4th Quarter 2023

The U.S. Census Bureau will release experimental data and an updated data visualization featuring quarterly tax
collections at the state level for cannabis sales. Data for cannabis sales taxes were reported in the Quarterly
Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenue and were first released for the second quarter of 2023. The
data visualization will provide cannabis revenue as a percent of the states total tax revenue where available and
percent change from the prior quarter. More information about this data can be found online
(https://www.census.gov/data/experimental-data-products/cannabis-excise-sales-tax-collections.html). (Scheduled
for release March 14.)

Quarterly Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenues: 4th Quarter 2023

The Census Bureau will release a summary of quarterly estimates of state and local government tax revenue at the
national level as well as detailed tax revenue data for individual states. This report will produce two income and
sales data tables and one table for tax collections by state. More information about this release is available in the
2023 Quarterly Summary of State & Local Tax Revenue Tables at census.gov.(Scheduled for release March 14.)

2024 Local Employment Dynamics Partnership Virtual Workshop

The U.S. Census Bureau will host the 2024 Local Employment Dynamics Partnership Virtual Workshop May 14-16.
This year's theme is "Multidimensional Perspectives of the Labor Market" and will feature Julia Pollak, chief
economist at ZipRecruiter, as the keynote speaker. The workshop will highlight the work of State Labor Market
Information (LMI) partners, state and local data users, and Census Bureau researchers. Here is more information
on the workshop and the call for presenters. Proposals to present are due by March 15.

"New Enhancements of the Census Business Builder (CBB)"

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute, welcomes Nidaal

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 9
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024

Jubran as he presents, "New Enhancements of the Census Business Builder." Recently the U.S. Census Bureau
released version 5.4 of the Census Business Builder tool. This update will feature a new enhancement that will
allow users to evaluate declared disaster areas and their impacts. CBB v5.4 will also include enhancements to
existing functionality and the latest data available including workforce data from the Quarterly Workforce Indicators.
More information on Census Business Builder is available online (https://www.census.gov/data/data-
tools/cbb.Help_&_FAQs.html). (Scheduled for release March 20.)

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures for Robotic Equipment

The Census Bureau will release new Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES) estimates. ACES estimates by
business type add details to national-level estimates of investment in machinery and equipment. The estimates
reflect data defined by 2017 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) industries in which robotic
investment was made. (Tentatively scheduled for release April 10.)

Commodity Flow Survey Expanded Hazardous Materials Supplement

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new experimental data product, the Commodity Flow Survey Expanded
Hazardous Materials (EHM) Supplement. The EHM is a supplemental set of questions about the packaging of
hazardous materials that were added to the first and fourth quarters of the 2022 Commodity Flow Survey (CFS).
Data were collected for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). The EHM will
include annual data for 2021 and 2022. (Tentatively scheduled for release in March/April.)

Census Business Builder Version 5.5

The U.S. Census Bureau will release version 5.5 of the Census Business Builder (CBB) tool. This update will
introduce a new Supply Chain view in the CBB dashboard, which will allow users to report on the economic impact
of FEMA declared disasters areas by NAICS code at Ports of Entry to the U.S. Version 5.5 will also include a
cartographic representation of Supply Chain data, as well as enhancements to reports and the latest data available.
More information on Census Business Builder is available online. (Scheduled for release in April.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. BTOS
experimental data products are representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding farms.
Data are available by additional employment size classes: 1-4 employees, 5-9 employees, 10-19 employees, 20-49
employees, 50-99 employees, 100-249 employees and 250 or more employees. The data allow greater insight into
the state of the economy by providing continuous, timely information for key economic measures. Data are released
biweekly and are available by sector, state and the 25 most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Additional
details on artificial intelligence use and types used will be added for one cycle starting December 4, 2023, and
released in March 2024. Because of the change in sample composition, BTOS data from before September 11,
2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional and national levels and by industry sector
at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released March 12 and will include February 2024 data.
Business Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (census.gov).

***

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting U.S. Census Bureau statistics that relate to current
events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining
and producing content for their respective audiences.

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 9
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024

* Certified Nurses Day: March 19, 2024

* National Poultry Day: March 19, 2024

* National Single Parent Day: March 21, 2024

* World Water Day: March 22, 2024

* MLB Opening Day: March 28, 2024

* National Mom and Pop Business Owners Day: March 29, 2024

* National Vietnam War Veterans Day: March 29, 2024

* National Doctors Day: March 30, 2024

***

Recently Released

(Released since February 23, 2024)

2020 Census

Census Bureau Releases Final 2020 Census CQR Errata Tables

February 28 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released the final, full set of errata tables for the 2020 Census Count
Question Resolution (CQR) program. The CQR operation gave tribal, state and local governments the opportunity
to ask the Census Bureau to review their boundaries or housing counts to identify errors that may have occurred
while processing their 2020 Census counts. The Census Bureau accepted 104 of the 123 cases received for
research. After reviewing the cases, there were two states with a change at the state level; 21 states with a change
at the governmental unit level; and 30 states with a change at the tract and block levels. Overall, a total of 148
governmental units in the United States were affected by CQR.

***

Demographic

Making Everyone Count: A Fireside Chat With the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and the U.S.
Census Bureau

February 29 -- USAID Assistant Administrator for Global Health Atul Gawande hosted Director of the U.S. Census
Bureau, Robert Santos in a fireside chat about the enduring and successful partnership between the two agencies
of close to 70 years, aimed at fostering collaboration and evidence-based policymaking worldwide. They shared
perspectives from their agencies on the vital role of population data and data equity in advancing development
objectives and explore ways to expand and continue to work together. The event has been archived and can be
viewed on the Census Bureau's YouTube page (https://youtube.com/live/o9Pv9jcfJ-s). More information is available
at the Census Bureau's International Programs Center.

Grandparents and Coresident Grandchildren Report

February 26 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released a report, Grandparents and Their Coresident Grandchildren:
2021, which provides characteristics of grandparents living with grandchildren under age 18. The report also
compares the characteristics of grandchildren by whether their parent or grandparent is the householder, and the
age of the grandparent. Data in the report come from the American Community Survey, Current Population Survey,
Survey of Income and Program Participation and 1970-2000 Censuses.

                                                                                                         Page 6 of 9
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024

***

Economic

2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey

February 28 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released data from the 2022 Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES)
highlighting the industries with the largest total capital expenditures for structures and equipment for companies
with employees in 2022. Data are based on the 2017 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The
ACES provides the only comprehensive estimates of annual U.S. capital expenditures data covering all domestic
nonfarm businesses and detailing investments by type and industry.

***

Facts for Features

Women's History Month: March 2024

March 6 -- The roots of National Women's History Month go back to March 8, 1857, when women from various New
York City factories staged a protest over poor working conditions. The first Women's Day celebration in the United
States was in 1909, also in New York City, but Congress did not establish National Women's History Week until
1981 to be commemorated annually the second week of March. In 1987, Congress expanded the week to a month.

National Black (or African American) History Month: February 2024

December 14 -- To commemorate and celebrate the contributions to our nation made by people of African descent,
the U.S. Census Bureau presents a collection of demographic and economic statistics about the Black community.

***

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

* Seven Annual Economic Surveys Combined into One (March 7)

* How Does Diversity in Social Networks Impact Survey Response? (March 5)

* How Many U.S. Businesses Offer Health Insurance to Employees? (February 29)

* Nearly 327,000 in U.S. Lived in Emergency and Transitional Shelters (February 27)

Is the Gender Wage Gap the Same at Different Education Levels? (February 22)

***

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting U.S. Census Bureau statistics that relate to current
events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining
and producing content for their respective audiences.

* National Agriculture Week & Day: March 17-23 & 19, 2024

* Potato Chip Day: March 14, 2024

                                                                                                         Page 7 of 9
                               Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024

* Pi Day: March 14, 2024

* Equal Pay Day: March 12, 2024

* 95th Oscars(R)/Academy Awards: March 10, 2024

* Sunshine Week & FOI Day: March 10-16 & 16, 2024

* International Women's Day: March 8, 2024

* Employee Appreciation Day: March 1, 2024

* Frozen Food Month & Day: March & 6, 2024

* Red Cross Month: March 2024

***

Blogs

Reflecting on Years Past and Looking Forward to 2024 -- Written by: Dr. Ron Jarmin, Deputy Director -- February
29

As we welcome 2024, I would like to take some time to reflect on the last year, on our staff and, of course, on our
agency. I want to thank each member of the U.S. Census Bureau community for the work done to help support our
mission - it's an honor to work with you all. The Census Bureau is an agency of innovation, continuously
transforming and advancing to keep up with technology and emerging socioeconomic trends. While the Census
Bureau faces significant challenges, I know we have the talent, tenacity and teamwork to overcome them and
deliver the high-quality, trusted data our nation and economy needs.

Looking Ahead to 2024 on Our Collective Journey to Excellence -- Written by: Robert L. Santos, Director, U.S.
Census Bureau -- February 26

As we navigate the first quarter of the new year, I have been reflecting upon our collective journey to excellence. It's
a journey that features effective partnerships, continuous communication and working together to understand
needs, leverage our strength and maximize productivity within recognized constraints. Like federal statistical
agencies across the nation (and the world!), the U.S. Census Bureau is charged with producing quality statistics in
the face of declining survey response rates, rising costs and increasing complexities of data collection. Once data
are collected, we then must address the intricacies of disclosure risks while preserving data utility/granularity. Plus,
there's the challenge of providing statistical data that meets the myriad needs of increasingly diverse communities
of users. Statistical data are only as good as their ability to provide the insight sought by federal agencies, tribal
nations, policymakers, state and local governments, community organizations, businesses, scholars and other
members of the public.

***

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources -- When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management
webpage (https://www.census.gov/topics/preparedness.html) for demographic and economic data on impacted
areas. Each disaster will include data from our key emergency management tools: OnTheMap for Emergency
Management, Community Resilience Estimates, Census Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition, and other
useful resources.

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community -- Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-
plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from

                                                                                                  Page 8 of 9
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024

the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official information about America's people, businesses,
industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

* Atlanta

* Chicago

* Denver

* Los Angeles

* New York

* Philadelphia

* All Surveys

***

Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage
(https://www.census.gov/data/data-tools.html).

Census Geocoder -- Provides interactive & programmatic (REST) access to users interested in matching addresses
to geographic locations and entities containing those addresses.

Data Equity Tools -- The U.S Census Bureau's publicly available data sets and tools to assist in the equitable
distribution of resources, and identifying underserved communities.

Small Business Pulse Survey Data -- The Small Business Pulse Survey (SBPS) measures the effect of changing
business conditions during the Coronavirus pandemic on our nation's small businesses.

***

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities -- Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and
use Census Bureau statistics. These free sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate
Census Bureau databases and mapping tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national
level.    Descriptions   of    upcoming     sessions     are     available   on    our     Census      Academy
(https://www.census.gov/data/academy/webinars/upcoming.html) webpage. Login details are provided at least one
week before a webinar.

* Comparing Health Insurance Data from the ACS and the SAHIE Program (Wednesday, March 13, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* FULL: Navigating the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) (Wednesday, March 13, 11-12 p.m. EDT)

* Introduction to Geographic Areas (Thursday, March 14, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

* Navigating the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) (Wednesday, March 20, 11-12 p.m. EDT)

* New Enhancements of the Census Business Builder (CBB) (Wednesday, March 20, 1:30-3:00 p.m. EDT)

* TIGERweb - Prowling Through Geographic Attributes (Thursday, March 28, 2-3 p.m. EDT)

                                                                                                   Page 9 of 9
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 5 - March 8, 2024

Archived Training Resources -- Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library for previously recorded,
free training available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded webinars, tutorials and
other helpful materials.

***

Original text here: https://www.census.gov/newsroom/tip-sheets/2024/tp24-05.html

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8522722 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: March 9, 2024


  
