

                                                                               Page 1 of 2
          DHS RELEASES 2023 UPDATE TO EQUITY ACTION PLAN, OUTLINES NEW COMMITMENTS




 DHS RELEASES 2023 UPDATE TO EQUITY ACTION PLAN, OUTLINES NEW
                        COMMITMENTS
                                                      US Fed News
                                         February 14, 2024 Wednesday 8:42 PM EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 315 words

Body


WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 -- The U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued the following speech text:

Today, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced the release of the 2023 Update to the DHS
Equity Action Plan, which builds on the progress made in the 2022 inaugural plan to further embed equity at the
center of the Department's mission. The 2023 Update highlights DHS's accomplishments over the past three years
and identifies nine focus areas to comprehensively advance equity across the Department's policies, programs, and
operations.

1.DHS selected the nine focus areas in the 2023 Update based on feedback from external stakeholders
representing underserved communities. These nine areas include the following strategies and initiatives:

2. Advance equity through the planned updates to the FEMA Individual Assistance Program, which will create
opportunities for underserved communities by increasing accessibility and eligibility for post-disaster support.

3.Reduce barriers to citizenship and naturalization through continued evaluation of programs, policies, and outreach
opportunities.

4. Promote equitable use of AI technology across the Department through the development and application of new
guidance as well as intra-agency coordination.

5. Counter Domestic Violent Extremism and targeted violence through a public health-informed approach.

6. Advance equity for persons who are Limited English Proficient (LEP) by strengthening language access
programs.

Advance equity in DHS's screening activities at airport checkpoints and ports of entry through updates to training
and enhanced technologies.

                                                                             Page 2 of 2
        DHS RELEASES 2023 UPDATE TO EQUITY ACTION PLAN, OUTLINES NEW COMMITMENTS

*Rest of the document can be viewed at: (https://www.dhs.gov/news/2024/02/14/dhs-releases-2023-update-equity-
action-plan-outlines-new-commitments) For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com


Load-Date: February 20, 2024


  
