

                                                                             Page 1 of 3
             OPEN FORUM DAVOS 2024 TO ADDRESS GLOBAL CHALLENGES THROUGH SCIENCE




         OPEN FORUM DAVOS 2024 TO ADDRESS GLOBAL CHALLENGES
                          THROUGH SCIENCE
                                                States News Service
                                             January 9, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 963 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: GENEVA, Switzerland

Body


The following information was released by the World Economic Forum in Davos:

As part of the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2024, this year's Open Forum Davos convening under the
theme "From Life to Lab: Science in Action will feature sessions on topics of critical importance through a scientific
lens.

Taking place on 15-19 January 2024 at the Swiss Alpine School in Davos, the publicly accessible event aims to
stimulate dialogue among thought leaders on current geopolitical concerns, environmental problems and the role of
the arts in society.

From exploring the potential of openness and trust in science to addressing such global challenges as air pollution,
biodiversity loss and climate change, the programme will also delve into disruptive innovations in research in
development, the science of ageing, gender research in medicine, the urgent need for cybersecurity preparedness,
and other pressing issues.

Notable sessions include a one-on-one with UN Messenger of Peace Jane Goodall on overcoming global crises,
and discussions on collaboration between science and biodiversity.

The "Primer on AI" session will address the rapid growth of artificial intelligence (AI), emphasizing the critical
need for inclusive, ethical and well-aligned solutions, while a panel, including American singer will.i.am, technology
advocate Alexandra Reeve Givens, and Alex Oster, a student from the Cantonal School of Baden, will explore how
to ensure AI benefits everyone.

French Turkish artist Yaman Okur, acclaimed for his achievements in choreography, photography and
breakdancing, will unveil a new short film on the 1999 Turkiye earthquake. Join this session to witness Okur's
personal and artistic response to the natural disaster, exploring the role of art in fostering resilience. The session
will provide insights into the transformative power of creativity in overcoming adversity.

                                                                           Page 2 of 3
           OPEN FORUM DAVOS 2024 TO ADDRESS GLOBAL CHALLENGES THROUGH SCIENCE

In collaboration with the Arctic Basecamp's Gail Whiteman, a session entitled "On Thin Ice" will address the
irreversible collapse of Arctic summer sea ice, with panellists discussing the consequences of accelerated global
warming and increased extreme weather events in the northern hemisphere.

"Digital Einstein", an interactive platform created by researchers at ETH Zurich, will take centre stage at the
entrance to the Open Forum, offering visitors the opportunity to "engage" with the Nobel Prize-winner scientist and
immerse themselves in the fascinating world of science.

Open Forum Davos panels embrace a spectrum of ages, genders and backgrounds. Sessions include perspectives
from inspiring voices from all walks of life and from different corners of the globe. Notably, the discussions feature
traditional academic voices as well as indigenous voices, ensuring a truly inclusive and comprehensive dialogue.

Panellists who will participate in this year's Open Forum Davos include:

Xiye Bastida, Founder, Re-Earth Initiative

Alexandra Baumann, Head, Prosperity and Sustainability Division, Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA) of
Switzerland

Ruzica Dadic, Head of Research Unit, Snow and Atmosphere, Institute for Snow and Avalanche Research

Michael Hengartner, President, ETH Board

Aslak Holmberg, President, The Saami Council

Iliana Ivanova, Commissioner for Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth, European Commission

Renata Koch Alvarenga, Founder and Director of EmpoderaClima

Andre Kudelski, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Kudelski Group

Maria Leptin, President, European Research Council

Melissa C. Lott, Director, Research; Senior Research Scholar at the Center on Global Energy Policy, Columbia
University

Maria Susana Muhamad, Minister of the Environment and Sustainable Development of Colombia

David Obura, Director, Coastal Oceans Research and Development in the Indian Ocean (CORDIO) East Africa,
Kenya

Naomi Oreskes, Professor of the History of Science, Harvard University

Guilherme de Rosso Man os, Global Shaper, Curitiba Hub

Julienne Stroeve, Professor of Polar Observation and Modelling, University College London (UCL), United Kingdom

Luciana Vaccaro, President, swissuniversities

Martin Vetterli, President, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL)

Gail Whiteman, Professor of Sustainability, University of Exeter Business School, University of Exeter, United
Kingdom

Michele Zatlyn, Co-Founder, President and Chief Operating Officer, Cloudflare Inc.

Open Forum Programme

                                                                           Page 3 of 3
           OPEN FORUM DAVOS 2024 TO ADDRESS GLOBAL CHALLENGES THROUGH SCIENCE

Monday 15 January

18.30 - 19.30 Liberating Science

Tuesday 16 January

09.30 - 10.30 Take a Deep Breath with Technology

12.30 - 13.30 Medicine and Women

18.30 - 19.30 RandD Disrupted

Wednesday 17 January

09.30 - 10.30 Speaking Truth to Power

12.30 - 13.30 Sustaining Life on Earth

18.30 - 19.30 A Primer on AI

Thursday 18 January

09.30 - 10.30 Cracking the Code

12.30 - 13.30 On Thin Ice

18.30 - 19.30 Resilience in Motion

Friday 19 January

09.30 - 10.30 Turning Back the Clock

About the Open Forum Davos

The Open Forum Davos was founded in 2003, when a series of public sessions was co-organized by the World
Economic Forum and civic society groups, including churches, fair trade organizations and the Swiss Red Cross.
Today, the Open Forum Davos remains a key platform for all of society to share thoughts and experiences on
pressing and controversial issues. For further information, click here.

Climate Hub Davos

For the first time, local NGO Greenup, in collaboration with the city of Davos, is hosting the Climate Hub, which is
open throughout the Annual Meeting 2024. Events include climate-related movie screenings, premieres, talks,
workshops and more.

About the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2024

The World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2024, taking place on 15-19 January in Davos-Klosters, Switzerland,
convenes the world's foremost leaders under the theme "Rebuilding Trust."


Load-Date: January 9, 2024


  
