

                                                                                            Page 1 of 3
   CENIC Recognizes CSU San Bernardino 's High Performance Computing Program for Improving CSU Access
                    to National Research Platform Resources CENIC Announces Recip....




  CENIC Recognizes CSU San Bernardino's High Performance Computing
    Program for Improving CSU Access to National Research Platform
 Resources; CENIC Announces Recipient of 2024 Innovations in Networking
                   Award for Research Applications
                                                 Business Wire
                                     February 29, 2024 Thursday 3:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1353 words
Dateline: LA MIRADA, Calif. & SAN FRANCISCO

Body


The High Performance Computing Program (HPCP) at CSU San Bernardino has been selected to receive the
CENIC 2024 Innovations in Networking Award for Research Applications in recognition of its work supporting
faculty who wish to avail themselves of all the National Research Platform (NRP) has to offer. The CENIC
Innovations in Networking Awards recognize exemplary people, projects, and organizations that leverage high-
bandwidth networking.

"I am delighted to extend my heartfelt congratulations to the High Performance Computing Program," said Louis
Fox, CENIC's Chief Executive Officer. "The dedication and efforts of all the honorees in advancing high-
performance computing and research capabilities are truly inspiring."

The NRP is a partnership of more than 50 institutions nationwide, led by researchers and cyberinfrastructure
professionals at UC San Diego and is a national open-access, scalable cyberinfrastructure for research and
education grown through the in-kind contributions of its user community. Thanks to the NRP, researchers and
educators across California, the United States, and the world are able to store, transfer, and access vast amounts
of information regardless of geographical distance.

Supporting a Broad Range of Big-Data Disciplines: Archaeology, Pediatrics, Materials Science, and more

While many of the most active heavy users are located at large research universities, the role of the High
Performance Computing Program (HPCP) at CSU San Bernardino is particularly noteworthy in the rapid adoption
and use of these resources at the California State University system. The HPCP and the collaborative work with the
NRP that led to it is headed by Samuel Sudhakar, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance, Technology
and Operations; Youngsu Kim, Professor of Mathematics and High-Performance Computing Faculty Fellow; and
Dung Vu, Lead High-Performance Computing Analyst at CSU San Bernardino.

Sudhakar stated, "The High Performance Computing Program at CSUSB supported by the National Research
Platform and CENIC has opened up tremendous opportunities for faculty-led innovation and research at our

                                                                                           Page 2 of 3
  CENIC Recognizes CSU San Bernardino 's High Performance Computing Program for Improving CSU Access
                   to National Research Platform Resources CENIC Announces Recip....

University. We are grateful for the collaboration we have with NRP and CENIC and the funding from NSF to grow
and expand the HPC resources we provide our faculty."

Sudhakar, Kim, Vu, and their team's work has been pivotal in supporting faculty in their research endeavors and
providing them with the tools and resources to access and manipulate vast amounts of data - crucial not only for
researchers and educators across California and the US but also for international collaborations.

The High Performance Computing Program Faculty Showcase for 2023 may be viewed on YouTube . All the
researchers in the showcase spoke highly of the value they place on the resources themselves as well as the
individualized support received from the HPCP team.

Reconstructing a Virtual Archaeological Site in Egypt

One extraordinary example of a recent HPCP-supported project is Benson and Pamela Harer Fellow in Egyptology
Dr. Kate Liszka's and Robert and Frances Fullerton Museum of Art's research Egyptologist and educator Bryan
Kraemer's interactive 3D model of a large archaeological site in southeastern Egypt, Wadi el Hudi , created from
91,000 still images.

With so many images and so much data to manage, as Kraemer says, "The scale of the data can sometimes
outstrip our ability to process it." For example, a site called Dihmit South provided 12,000 high-resolution
photographs in only two days of examination. "That's just not going to work properly on most of the machines we
have available."

Discovering, Manufacturing, and Deploying New Materials Faster: the Materials Genome Initiative

Many of the innovations we interact with and rely on - sensors, touchscreens, medical implants and medications,
kitchen appliances, and much more - employ highly specialized materials that react to electricity, deformation,
temperature, or even light in very precise ways. However, making and testing materials in order to determine their
usefulness can be expensive and time-consuming. The ability to predict in advance whether a given material will
exhibit one or more of these useful behaviors would save time and money and can enable researchers to design
such materials from first principles and models.

Performing such calculations on these materials of course requires access to vast databases and processing
power, and thanks to the resources and support provided by the HPCP, CSU San Bernardino's Center for
Advanced Functional Materials has already found promising candidate materials worth investigating.

Using Machine Learning to Predict and Treat Pediatric Sleep Apnea

Another HPCP-supported project makes use of large datasets from the Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality relating to pediatric obstructive sleep apnea. Thanks to the access and computing resources that they need
to make use of these vast national datasets, the team of Benjamin Becerra, assistant professor at CSU San
Bernardino's Center for Health Equity , is working on developing predictive models for this disorder.

This work can be seriously hampered by what Becerra calls the "curse of dimensionality" - the amount of different
types of data associated with each patient encounter. For each of the tens of millions of such records, the sex, age,
race, and various diagnostic and billing codes only scratch the surface of the data that must be accounted for in
their machine-learning models. It would be practically impossible to do this locally. Luckily, the team has access to
the National Research Platform and JupyterLab notebooks.

These resources have also enabled students to participate more fully in this research, who would normally be using
less powerful laptops or tablets incapable of handling such datasets locally.

Optimizing Traffic Monitoring Using Drones

                                                                                           Page 3 of 3
  CENIC Recognizes CSU San Bernardino 's High Performance Computing Program for Improving CSU Access
                   to National Research Platform Resources CENIC Announces Recip....

One of the most potentially revolutionary uses of artificial intelligence and machine learning is in the real-time
management of fleets of unmanned aerial vehicles, commonly known as drones. Environmental monitoring and
data collection - especially in situations where fast response and decision-making are needed such as agricultural
uses and disaster response - is a perfect example of how real-time routing of drones based on the data they
provide can intersect deeply with big-data science, artificial intelligence, and machine learning, including their
high-performance computing requirements.

Research performed by CSU San Bernardino's Information and Decision Sciences Department focuses on
mathematical models to optimally route and schedule fleets of drones in order to monitor and respond to traffic flow
and emergency situations. A very small model with only a few drones can be manageable, but as the number of
drones increases, such models quickly become cumbersome beyond the ability of ordinary computer resources;
without the resources and support of the university's HPCP, these calculations would be unmanageable.

About CENIC | www.cenic.org

CENIC connects California to the world-advancing education and research statewide by providing the world-class
network essential for innovation, collaboration, and economic growth. This nonprofit organization operates the
California Research and Education Network (CalREN), a high-capacity network designed to meet the unique
requirements of over 20 million users, including the vast majority of K-20 students together with educators,
researchers and others at vital public-serving institutions. CENIC's Charter Associates are part of the world's largest
education system; they include the California K-12 system, California Community Colleges, the California State
University system, California's Public Libraries, the University of California system, Stanford, Caltech, USC, and the
Naval Postgraduate School. CENIC also provides connectivity to leading-edge institutions and industry research
organizations around the world, serving the public as a catalyst for a vibrant California.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240229357734/en/


CONTACT: Media Contact:
Lee Ann Weber
Associate VP of Communications, CENIC

lweber@cenic.org


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: March 7, 2024


  
