

                                                                                               Page 1 of 25
    AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                    Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation




AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results; Second Quarter 2024
   Results Reflect the Successful Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation
                                                   Business Wire
                                     July 31, 2024 Wednesday 8:16 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 9384 words
Dateline: NEW YORK

Body

American International Group, Inc. (NYSE: AIG) today reported financial results for the second quarter ended June
30, 2024.

AIG Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Peter Zaffino said: "AIG had an outstanding second quarter and delivered
terrific underwriting results across all of our businesses. The quarter marked one of the most notable
accomplishments in AIG's history with the deconsolidation of Corebridge, a process which began in 2020 and
significantly advanced our multi-year strategy to position AIG for the future.

"The core fundamentals were exceptional in a quarter that included the complex accounting treatment of
deconsolidation along with prior year divestitures. We are very pleased with the ongoing improvement in our
underwriting income, record Commercial Lines new business of $1.3 billion, and very strong retention. Second
quarter adjusted after-tax income per diluted share was $1.16, a 9% increase year-over-year, or 38% on a
comparable basis.

"Against the backdrop of an increasingly uncertain global risk environment, AIG delivered sustainable earnings
growth driven by our focus on underwriting excellence and continued expense discipline. The second quarter
accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, of 87.6% improved 40 basis points year-over-year, or 170 basis points
on a comparable basis with 180 basis points of improvement in Global Commercial Lines and 130 basis points in
Global Personal Insurance. The catastrophe loss ratio was 5.7 points for the second quarter, or 3.8 points for the
first six months of the year, improving 20 basis points year-over-year, an excellent performance in a challenging
catastrophe environment.

"The repositioning of our underwriting portfolio has enabled us to deliver high-quality growth in both the admitted
and non-admitted markets with multiple points of entry to deploy capital towards the most attractive risk adjusted
returns around the world. This quarter, General Insurance net premiums written grew 7% on a comparable basis.
North America Commercial Lines achieved 10% growth with expansion across all major lines of business.
Lexington Insurance, our Excess & Surplus platform, achieved over $1 billion of gross premiums written in the
second quarter and had its strongest new business quarter since we strategically shifted the business in 2018.
International Commercial Lines delivered 6% growth with expansion across all regions. The flight to quality across
the industry is driving increased submission activity toward AIG as we deepen our distribution relationships, benefit
from lead underwriting positions, continue to expand our product offerings and deliver increased value for clients.

                                                                                              Page 2 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

"We also continue to execute our capital management strategy, while maintaining strong insurance subsidiary
capital and parent liquidity. We executed nearly $5 billion of capital management actions in the first half of 2024,
including $500 million of preferred stock redemption, $459 million of debt repayment, $3.3 billion of share
repurchases and $511 million of dividend payments. We ended the quarter with an outstanding total debt to capital
ratio of 18.1% along with parent liquidity of $5.3 billion and an exceptionally strong balance sheet.

"We enter the back half of 2024 with significant momentum focused on enhancing our leadership in the market. I
want to thank our colleagues around the world for their hard work and dedication on behalf of our clients,
distribution partners and stakeholders."
     * Refers to financial measure not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (non-
     GAAP); definitions of non-GAAP measures and reconciliations to their closest GAAP measures can be found in this
     news release under the heading Comment on Regulation G and Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
     Net premiums written on a comparable basis reflects year-over-year comparison on a constant dollar basis adjusted
     for the sale of Crop Risk Services and the sale of Validus Re in 2023. APTI, underwriting income and ratios on a
     comparable basis reflects year-over-year comparison adjusted for the sale of Crop Risk Services and the sale of
     Validus Re in 2023. Refer to pages 20 to 21 for more detail.

FINANCIAL SUMMARY
                                                                                          Three Months Ended
                                                                                          June 30,
       ($ and shares in millions, except per share amounts)                               202         2024
                                                                                          3
       Income attributable to AIG common shareholders from continuing operations        $ 833      $ 475
       Net income per diluted share from continuing operations                          $ 1.14     $ 0.71

       Net income (loss) attributable to AIG common shareholders                        $ 1,48        $ (3,97    )
                                                                                          5             7
       Net income (loss) per diluted share attributable to AIG common shareholders      $ 2.03        $ (5.96    )

       Net investment income                                                            $ 837         $ 990
       Net investment income, APTI basis                                                  775           884

       Adjusted pre-tax income (loss)                                                   $ 1,04        $ 1,018
                                                                                          1
       General Insurance                                                                  1,31          1,176
                                                                                          9
       Other Operations                                                                   (278    )     (158     )

       Adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders                $ 777         $ 775
       Adjusted after-tax income per diluted share attributable to AIG common           $ 1.06        $ 1.16
       shareholders

       Weighted average common shares outstanding - diluted                                730.         667.0
                                                                                           5

       Return on equity                                                                    14.0       % NM           %
       Adjusted return on equity                                                           5.5        % 6.2          %
       Return on tangible equity                                                           8.1        % 7.7          %
       Core operating return on equity                                                     9.1        % 8.9          %

       Book value per share                                                             $ 58.4        $ 68.40
                                                                                          9
       Adjusted book value per share                                                    $ 78.5        $ 72.78
                                                                                          4

                                                                                              Page 3 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

       Tangible book value per share                                                 $ 53.1      $ 62.56
                                                                                       1
       Core operating book value per share                                           $ 48.1      $ 53.35
                                                                                       8

       Common shares outstanding (in millions)                                          717.        649.8
                                                                                        5

AIG recognized a loss of $4.7 billion as a result of Corebridge deconsolidation driven by a gain of $2.5 billion from
Corebridge assets retained offset by the recognition of an accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCL) of $7.2
billion, which represents the proportional recognition of the remaining 48.4% ownership stake of AOCL of
Corebridge as of June 9, 2024 (Deconsolidation Date). The loss is recorded as a component of discontinued
operations. Following the deconsolidation of Corebridge, the historical financial results of Corebridge, for all periods
presented, are reflected in AIG's Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as discontinued operations in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).

For the second quarter of 2024, net loss attributable to AIG common shareholders was $4.0 billion, or $5.96 per
diluted common share, compared to net income of $1.5 billion, or $2.03 per diluted common share, in the prior year
quarter. The decrease was primarily driven by the recognition of $4.7 billion loss as a result of Corebridge
deconsolidation as described above.

AATI was $775 million, or $1.16 per diluted common share, for the second quarter of 2024, compared with $777
million, or $1.06 per diluted common share, in the prior year quarter, reflecting higher net investment income in
General Insurance and improved results in Other Operations, offset by lower underwriting income in General
Insurance due to business divestitures and an increase in catastrophe losses year-over-year.

Total net investment income for the second quarter of 2024 was $990 million, an increase of 18% from $837 million
in the prior year quarter, reflecting higher income from fixed maturity securities and loans, due to higher
reinvestment rates, and dividends received from Corebridge in the second quarter of 2024, partially offset by lower
equity and alternative investment returns in addition to asset decline from the sale of Validus Re. Total net
investment income on an APTI basis* was $884 million, an increase of 14% from the prior year quarter, reflecting
higher reinvestment rates and dividends received from Corebridge in the second quarter of 2024. In General
Insurance, net investment income was up 3% from the prior year quarter, overcoming the headwind associated with
the sale of Validus Re, which produced $44 million in net investment income in the prior year quarter. Excluding
Validus Re results from the second quarter of 2023, net investment income was up about 10% from the prior year
quarter.

In the second quarter of 2024, AIG returned almost $2.0 billion to AIG shareholders through$1.7 billion of common
stock repurchases representing approximately 22 million shares and $261 million of common stock dividends. AIG
parent liquidity was $5.3 billion as of June 30, 2024. Book value per share was $68.40 as of June 30, 2024.
Adjusted book value per share* was $72.78. Total debt to total capital at June 30, 2024 was 18.1% and total debt to
total adjusted capital* was 17.2%.

On July 31, 2024, the AIG Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on AIG common stock of $0.40 per
share. The dividend is payable on September 30, 2024 to stockholders of record at the close of business on
September 16, 2024.

GENERAL INSURANCE
                                                                      Three Months Ended June
                                                                      30,
        ($ in millions)                                                  202           202           Chan
                                                                         3             4             ge
        Gross premiums written                                        $ 10,3        $ 9,88           (5   ) %
                                                                         99            8

                                                                                           Page 4 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

    Net premiums written                                        $ 7,53        $ 6,93        (8    ) %
                                                                  7             3
    Underwriting income (loss)                                  $ 594         $ 430         (28   ) %

    Net investment income, APTI basis                           $ 725         $ 746         3       %
    Adjusted pre-tax income                                     $ 1,31        $ 1,17        (11   ) %
                                                                  9             6

    Underwriting ratios:
    General Insurance (GI) CR                                     90.9          92.5        1.6       p
                                                                                                      ts
    GI Loss ratio                                                 59.3          61.0        1.7
    Less: impact on loss ratio
    Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                 (3.9   )      (5.7   )    (1.   )
                                                                                            8
    Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year     1.0           0.8         (0.   )
    premiums                                                                                2
    GI Accident year loss ratio, as adjusted                      56.4          56.1        (0.   )
                                                                                            3
    GI Expense ratio                                              31.6          31.5        (0.   )
                                                                                            1
    GI Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                  88.0          87.6        (0.   ) p
                                                                                            4       ts

    Comparable Basis Underwriting ratios:
    Net premiums written                                        $ 6,45        $ 6,93        7         %
                                                                  6             3
    General Insurance (GI) CR                                     92.4          92.5        0.1     p
                                                                                                    ts
    GI Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                  89.3          87.6        (1.   ) p
                                                                                            7       ts

•   General Insurance APTI of $1.2 billion decreased 11% from the prior year quarter as a result of the 2023
    divestitures, but increased 7% on a comparable basis, driven by higher underwriting and net investment
    income.
•   Second quarter 2024 NPW of $6.9 billion declined 8% from the prior year quarter on a reported basis as a
    result of the 2023 divestitures, but increased 7% on a comparable basis, driven by 8% growth in Global
    Commercial Lines.
•   Underwriting income was $430 million, a 28% decrease year-over-year as prior year results included the
    results of subsequently divested businesses, but a 2% increase on a comparable basis.
•   Catastrophe losses were $325 million, of which $156 million was in North America, mainly attributable to
    U.S. convective storms, and $169 million in International, with the largest loss from Middle East rains.
•   Favorable prior year development (PYD), net of reinsurance, was $79 million, compared to $115 million in
    the prior year quarter. The reserve review in the second quarter of 2024 resulted in favorable PYD, largely
    driven by favorable development in U.S. Workers' Compensation, U.S. Other Casualty and the
    amortization benefit related to adverse development cover, partially offset by unfavorable development in
    U.S. Excess Casualty.
•   The combined ratio was 92.5%, an increase of 160 basis points from the prior year quarter, mainly driven
    by a 180 basis point increase in the catastrophe loss ratio. The AYCR improved 40 basis points from the
    prior year quarter to 87.6%, driven by a 30 basis point improvement in the accident year loss ratio, as
    adjusted* (AYLR) and a 10 basis point improvement in the expense ratio. On a comparable basis, the
    combined ratio increased 10 basis points and the AYCR improved 170 basis points from the prior year

                                                                                             Page 5 of 25
  AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                  Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

      quarter driven by a 100 basis point improvement in the general operating expense (GOE) ratio, partially
      driven by the initial benefits of AIG Next.

GENERAL INSURANCE - NORTH AMERICA COMMERCIAL LINES
                                                                      Three Months Ended
                                                                      June 30,
      ($ in millions)                                                   202         202       Chan
                                                                        3           4         ge
      Net premiums written                                            $ 3,41      $ 2,75      (19 ) %
                                                                        0           0
      Underwriting income (loss)                                      $ 403       $ 191       (53    ) %

      Underwriting ratios:
      North America Commercial Lines CR                                    85.6      90.2     4.6      p
                                                                                                       ts
      North America Commercial Lines AYCR, as adjusted                     85.1      84.7     (0.    ) p
                                                                                              4        ts

      Comparable Basis Underwriting ratios:
      Net premiums written                                            $ 2,49      $ 2,75      10       %
                                                                        4           0
      North America Commercial Lines CR                                 87.5        90.2      2.7      p
                                                                                                       ts
      North America Commercial Lines AYCR, as adjusted                     87.2      84.7     (2.    ) p
                                                                                              5        ts

  •   North America Commercial Lines NPW declined 19% from the prior year quarter as a result of the 2023
      divestitures, but increased 10% on a comparable basis. The business generated growth across all major
      lines of business, most notably in Lexington, which grew 16%, driven by a strong new business production
      from increased submissions and new product offerings. Financial Lines NPW increased 6% from the prior
      year quarter, driven by an increase in M&A activity, Professional Liability and Cyber.
  •   The combined ratio increased 460 basis points from the prior year quarter to 90.2%, driven by a higher loss
      ratio reflecting changes in business mix resulting from the 2023 divestitures, lower favorable PYD, net of
      reinsurance, and higher catastrophe loss ratio, partially offset by lower expense ratio. The AYCR improved
      40 basis points from the prior year quarter to 84.7%, driven by lower expense ratio, partially offset by an
      increase in AYLR. On a comparable basis, the combined ratio increased 270 basis points and the AYCR
      improved 250 basis points from the prior year quarter.

GENERAL INSURANCE - NORTH AMERICA PERSONAL INSURANCE
                                                                 Three Months Ended June
                                                                 30,
      ($ in millions)                                               202           202         Chan
                                                                    3             4           ge
      Net premiums written                                       $ 563         $ 610          8        %
      Underwriting income (loss)                                 $ (51    )    $ (28     )    45       %

      Underwriting ratios:
      North America Personal Insurance CR                           112.          105.        (7.    ) p
                                                                    9             3           6        ts
      North America Personal Insurance AYCR, as adjusted            107.          101.        (5.    ) p
                                                                    1             8           3        ts

  •   North America Personal Insurance NPW grew 8% from the prior year quarter, primarily driven by High Net
      Worth, resulting from positive rate change.

                                                                                             Page 6 of 25
  AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                  Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

  •   The combined ratio improved 760 basis points from the prior year quarter to 105.3%, driven by an
      improvement in AYLR, favorable PYD, net of reinsurance, compared to unfavorable development in the
      prior year quarter, and lower expense ratio, partially offset by a higher catastrophe loss ratio. The AYCR
      improved 530 basis points to 101.8%, primarily driven by an improvement in AYLR as well as lower
      expense ratio.

GENERAL INSURANCE - INTERNATIONAL COMMERCIAL LINES
                                                                       Three Months Ended
                                                                       June 30,
      ($ in millions)                                                    202         202        Chan
                                                                         3           4          ge
      Net premiums written                                             $ 2,22      $ 2,28       3        %
                                                                         3           4
      Underwriting income (loss)                                       $ 216       $ 230        6        %

      Underwriting ratios:
      International Commercial Lines CR                                   89.0         88.6     (0.    ) p
                                                                                                4        ts
      International Commercial Lines AYCR, as adjusted                    83.1         82.1     (1.    ) p
                                                                                                0        ts

      Comparable Basis Underwriting ratios:
      Net premiums written                                             $ 2,15       $ 2,28      6        %
                                                                         3            4
      International Commercial Lines CR                                  89.0         88.6      (0.    ) p
                                                                                                4        ts
      International Commercial Lines AYCR, as adjusted                    83.4         82.1     (1.    ) p
                                                                                                3        ts

  •   International Commercial Lines NPW increased 3% from the prior year quarter, or 6% on a comparable
      basis, attributable to growth in Global Specialty, Property, and Casualty, primarily driven by higher renewal
      retention and strong new business production, partially offset by a decrease in Financial Lines.
  •   The combined ratio improved 40 basis points from the prior year quarter to 88.6%, primarily driven by a
      favorable development in PYD, net of reinsurance, compared to unfavorable development in the prior year
      quarter, and lower expense ratio, partially offset by a higher catastrophe loss ratio. The AYCR improved
      100 basis points from the prior year quarter to 82.1%, driven by lower expense ratio. On a comparable
      basis, the combined ratio improved 40 basis points and the AYCR improved 130 basis points from the prior
      year quarter.

GENERAL INSURANCE - INTERNATIONAL PERSONAL INSURANCE
                                                                       Three Months Ended
                                                                       June 30,
      ($ in millions)                                                    202         202        Chan
                                                                         3           4          ge
      Net premiums written                                             $ 1,34      $ 1,28       (4   ) %
                                                                         1           9
      Underwriting income (loss)                                       $ 26        $ 37         42       %

      Underwriting ratios:
      International Personal Insurance CR                                 98.0         97.0     (1.    ) p
                                                                                                0        ts
      International Personal Insurance AYCR, as adjusted                  95.3         94.8     (0.    ) p
                                                                                                5        ts

                                                                                              Page 7 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

        Comparable Basis Underwriting ratios:
        Net premiums written                                              $ 1,24        $ 1,28        3      %
                                                                            6             9

    •    International Personal Insurance NPW declined 4% from the prior year quarter, but grew 3% on a
         comparable basis, largely driven by increases in Personal Auto and Individual Travel, partially offset by a
         decrease in Warranty.
    •    The International Personal Insurance combined ratio improved 100 basis points from the prior year quarter
         to 97.0%, primarily driven by lower catastrophe loss ratio and lower expense ratio, partially offset by lower
         favorable PYD, net of reinsurance. The AYCR improved 50 basis points to 94.8%, driven by lower expense
         ratio.

OTHER OPERATIONS
                                                                           Three Months Ended June
                                                                           30,
        ($ in millions)                                                       20          20              Cha
                                                                              23          24              nge
        Net investment income                                              $ 52         $ 14              1     %
                                                                                          1               7
                                                                                                          1
        General operating expenses                                            (18   )       (19   )       (   )
                                                                              1             0             5
        Interest expense                                                      (13   )       (11   )       1
                                                                              5             2             7
        All other income (expenses)                                           (6    )       3             N
                                                                                                          M
        Adjusted pre-tax loss before consolidation and eliminations        $ (27    )    $ (15    )       4
                                                                             0             8              1
        Total consolidation and eliminations                                 (8     )      -              N
                                                                                                          M
        Adjusted pre-tax loss                                              $ (27    )    $ (15    )       4     %
                                                                             8             8              3

    •    Other Operations adjusted pre-tax loss (APTL) improved $120 million from the prior year quarter, primarily
         due to higher net investment income and lower interest expenses, partially offset by higher GOE.
    •    Total net investment income increased $89 million from the prior year quarter, due to dividend income
         received from Corebridge in the second quarter of 2024 and higher income on parent short-term
         investments due to higher yields.
    •    AIG interest expense decreased $23 million, primarily driven by interest savings from debt reduction in
         2023 and 2024.
    •    Total GOE increased $9 million, due to lower recoveries from AIG's transition service agreement with
         Corebridge, partially offset by a decrease in Corporate GOE.

CONFERENCE CALL

AIG will host a conference call tomorrow, Thursday, August 1, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. ET to review these results. The
call is open to the public and can be accessed via a live, listen-only webcast in the Investors section of
www.aig.com . A replay will be available after the call at the same location.

###

Additional supplementary financial data is available in the Investors section at www.aig.com .

                                                                                              Page 8 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

Accounting Treatment After the Deconsolidation Date: (i) AIG has elected the fair value option and will reflect its
retained interest in Corebridge as an equity method investment in other invested assets in AIG's Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets using Corebridge's stock price as its fair value, (ii) dividends received from
Corebridge and changes in its stock price are recognized in net investment income in AIG's Condensed
Consolidated Financial Statements, and (iii) AIG's adjusted pre-tax income will include Corebridge dividends and
exclude changes in the fair value of Corebridge's stock price.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results

Certain statements in this press release and other publicly available documents may include, and members of AIG
management may from time to time make and discuss, statements which, to the extent they are not statements of
historical or present fact, may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management's
current expectations or plans for AIG's future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently
believed to be valid and accurate. Forward-looking statements are often preceded by, followed by or include words
such as "will," "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "expectations," "intend," "plan," "strategy," "prospects," "project,"
"anticipate," "should," "guidance," "outlook," "confident," "focused on achieving," "view," "target," "goal," "estimate"
and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.
These statements may include, among other things, projections, goals and assumptions that relate to future
actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or
products, sales efforts, expense reduction efforts, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings,
anticipated organizational, business or regulatory changes, such as the separation and accounting deconsolidation
of the Life and Retirement business from AIG, the effect of catastrophic events, both natural and man-made, and
macroeconomic and/or geopolitical events, anticipated dispositions, monetization and/or acquisitions of businesses
or assets, the successful integration of acquired businesses, management succession and retention plans,
exposure to risk, trends in operations and financial results, and other statements that are not historical facts.

All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause AIG's actual results and
financial condition to differ, possibly materially, from the results and financial condition expressed or implied in the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause AIG's actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in
specific projections, goals, assumptions and other forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
    •   the impact of adverse developments affecting economic conditions in the markets in which AIG and its
        businesses operate in the U.S. and globally, including adverse developments related to financial market
        conditions, macroeconomic trends, fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates,
        inflationary pressures, including social inflation, pressures on the commercial real estate market, an
        economic slowdown or recession, any potential U.S. federal government shutdown and geopolitical events
        or conflicts, including the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict in Israel and the surrounding
        areas;
    •   the occurrence of catastrophic events, both natural and man-made, including the effects of climate change,
        geopolitical events and conflicts and civil unrest;
    •   disruptions in the availability or accessibility of AIG's or a third party's information technology systems,
        including hardware and software, infrastructure or networks, and the inability to safeguard the
        confidentiality and integrity of customer, employee or company data due to cyberattacks, data security
        breaches, or infrastructure vulnerabilities;
    •   AIG's ability to successfully dispose of, monetize and/or acquire businesses or assets or successfully
        integrate acquired businesses, and the anticipated benefits thereof;
    •   AIG's ability to realize expected strategic, financial, operational or other benefits from the separation and
        accounting deconsolidation of Corebridge as well as AIG's continuing equity market exposure to
        Corebridge;
    •   AIG's ability to effectively implement restructuring initiatives and potential cost-savings opportunities;

                                                                                              Page 9 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

    •   AIG's ability to effectively implement technological advancements, including the use of artificial
        intelligence (AI), and respond to competitors' AI and other technology initiatives;
    •   the effectiveness of strategies to retain and recruit key personnel and to implement effective succession
        plans;
    •   concentrations in AIG's investment portfolios;
    •   AIG's reliance on third-party investment managers;
    •   changes in the valuation of AIG's investments;
    •   AIG's reliance on third parties to provide certain business and administrative services;
    •   availability of adequate reinsurance or access to reinsurance on acceptable terms;
    •   concentrations of AIG's insurance, reinsurance and other risk exposures;
    •   nonperformance or defaults by counterparties;
    •   AIG's ability to adequately assess risk and estimate related losses as well as the effectiveness of AIG's
        enterprise risk management policies and procedures, including with respect to business continuity and
        disaster recovery plans;
    •   difficulty in marketing and distributing products through current and future distribution channels;
    •   actions by rating agencies with respect to AIG's credit and financial strength ratings as well as those of its
        businesses and subsidiaries;
    •   changes to sources of or access to liquidity;
    •   changes in judgments concerning the recognition of deferred tax assets and the impairment of goodwill;
    •   changes in judgments or assumptions concerning insurance underwriting and insurance liabilities;
    •   changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements or their applicability to AIG, including
        as a result of the accounting deconsolidation of Corebridge;
    •   the effects of sanctions, including those related to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and the failure
        to comply with those sanctions;
    •   the effects of changes in laws and regulations, including those relating to the regulation of insurance, in the
        U.S. and other countries in which AIG and its businesses operate;
    •   changes to tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which AIG and its businesses operate;
    •   the outcome of significant legal, regulatory or governmental proceedings;
    •   AIG's ability to effectively execute on sustainability targets and standards;
    •   AIG's ability to address evolving stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements with respect to
        environmental, social and governance matters;
    •   the impact of epidemics, pandemics and other public health crises and responses thereto; and
    •   such other factors discussed in Part I, Item 2. Management's Discussions and Analysis of Financial
        Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in AIG's Quarterly Report
        on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2024 (which will be filed with the Securities and
        Exchange Commission) (SEC), and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7. MD&A in AIG's Annual
        Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023.

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, or in the case of any document
incorporated by reference, the date of that document. AIG is not under any obligation to publicly update or revise
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as
required by applicable law. Additional information as to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from

                                                                                             Page 10 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements is disclosed from time to time in our filings with the
SEC.

###

COMMENT ON REGULATION G AND NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

Throughout this press release, including the financial highlights, AIG presents its financial condition and results of
operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful and representative of its business results. Some of the
measurements AIG uses are "Non-GAAP financial measures" under SEC rules and regulations. GAAP is the
acronym for generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures AIG
presents are listed below and may not be comparable to similarly-named measures reported by other companies.
The reconciliations of such measures to the most comparable GAAP measures in accordance with Regulation G
are included within the relevant tables attached to this news release or in the Second Quarter 2024 Financial
Supplement available in the Investors section of AIG's website, www.aig.com .

Unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms "AIG," "we," "us" and "our"
to refer to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.

AIG uses the following operating performance measures because AIG believes they enhance the understanding of
the underlying profitability of continuing operations and trends of AIG's business segments. AIG believes they also
allow for more meaningful comparisons with AIG's insurance competitors. When AIG uses these measures,
reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure are provided on a consolidated basis.

Book value per share, excluding investments related cumulative unrealized gains and losses in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude
Re funds withheld assets (collectively, Investments AOCI) (Adjusted book value per share) is used to show the
amount of our net worth on a per share basis after eliminating the fair value of investments that can fluctuate
significantly from period to period due to changes in market conditions. In addition, we adjusted for the cumulative
unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets held by AIG in support of Fortitude Re's
reinsurance obligations to AIG (Fortitude Re funds withheld assets) since these fair value movements are
economically transferred to Fortitude Re. Adjusted book value per share is derived by dividing total AIG common
shareholders' equity, excluding Investments AOCI (AIG adjusted common equity) by total common shares
outstanding.

Book Value per share, excluding Goodwill, Value of business acquired (VOBA), Value of distribution channel
acquired (VODA) and Other intangible assets (Tangible book value per share) is used to provide a useful measure
of the realizable shareholder value on a per share basis. Tangible book value per share is derived by dividing Total
AIG common shareholders' equity, excluding intangible assets (AIG tangible common shareholders' equity) by total
common shares outstanding.

Book value per share, excluding Investments AOCI, deferred tax assets (DTA) and AIG's ownership interest in
Corebridge (Core operating book value per share) is used to show the amount of our net worth on a per share basis
after eliminating Investments AOCI, DTA and AIG's ownership interest in Corebridge. We believe this measure is
useful to investors because it eliminates fair value of investments that can fluctuate significantly from period to
period due to changes in market conditions. We also exclude only the portion of DTA representing U.S. tax
attributes related to net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) and corporate alternative minimum tax credits
(CAMTCs) and foreign tax credits (FTCs) that have not yet been utilized. Amounts for interim periods are estimates
based on projections of full-year attribute utilization. As NOLs, CAMTCs and FTCs are utilized, the portion of the
DTA utilized is included. We exclude AIG's ownership interest in Corebridge since it is not a core long-term
investment for AIG. Core operating book value per share is derived by dividing total AIG common shareholders'
equity, excluding Investments AOCI, DTA and AIG's ownership interest in Corebridge (AIG core operating
shareholders' equity) by total common shares outstanding.

                                                                                             Page 11 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

Total debt and preferred stock to total adjusted capital ratio is used to show the AIG's debt leverage adjusted for
Investments AOCI and is derived by dividing total debt and preferred stock by total capital excluding Investments
AOCI (Total adjusted capital). We believe this measure is useful to investors because it eliminates items that can
fluctuate significantly from period to period due to changes in market conditions. In addition, we adjust for the
cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets since these fair value
movements are economically transferred to Fortitude Re.

Return on equity - Adjusted after-tax income excluding Investments AOCI (Adjusted return on equity) is used to
show the rate of return on common shareholders' equity excluding Investments AOCI. We believe this measure is
useful to investors because it eliminates fair value of investments which can fluctuate significantly from period to
period due to changes in market conditions. Adjusted return on equity is derived by dividing actual or, for interim
periods, annualized adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders by average AIG adjusted
common shareholders' equity.

Return on Equity - Adjusted After-tax Income, Excluding Goodwill, VOBA, VODA and Other Intangible assets
(Return on tangible equity) is used to show the return on AIG tangible common shareholder's equity, which we
believe is a useful measure of realizable shareholder value. We exclude Goodwill, VOBA, VODA and Other
intangible assets from AIG common shareholders' equity to derive AIG tangible common shareholders' equity.
Return on AIG tangible common equity is derived by dividing actual or, for interim periods, annualized adjusted
after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders by average AIG tangible common equity.

Return on equity - Adjusted after-tax income excluding Investments AOCI, DTA and AIG's ownership interest in
Corebridge (Core operating return on equity) is used to show the rate of return on common shareholders' equity
excluding Investments AOCI, DTA and AIG's ownership interest in Corebridge. We believe this measure is useful to
investors because it eliminates fair value of investments that can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to
changes in market conditions. We also exclude only the portion of DTA representing U.S. tax attributes related to
NOLs and CAMTCs and FTCs that have not yet been utilized. Amounts for interim periods are estimates based on
projections of full-year attribute utilization. As NOLs, CAMTCs and FTCs are utilized, the portion of the DTA utilized
is included. We exclude AIG's ownership interest in Corebridge since it is not a core long-term investment for AIG.
This metric will provide greater insight as to the underlying profitability of our property and casualty business. Core
operating return on equity is derived by dividing actual or, for interim periods, annualized adjusted after-tax income
attributable to AIG common shareholders by average AIG core operating shareholders' equity.

Adjusted revenues exclude Net realized gains (losses), income from non-operating litigation settlements (included
in Other income for GAAP purposes) and income from elimination of the International reporting lag. Adjusted
revenues is a GAAP measure for our segments.

Adjusted Pre-tax Income (APTI) is derived by excluding the items set forth below from income from continuing
operations before income tax. This definition is consistent across our segments. These items generally fall into one
or more of the following broad categories: legacy matters having no relevance to our current businesses or
operating performance; adjustments to enhance transparency to the underlying economics of transactions; and
measures that we believe to be common to the industry. APTI is a GAAP measure for our segments. Excluded
items include the following:
    •   changes in the fair values of equity securities and AIG's ownership interest in Corebridge;
    •   net investment income on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets;
    •   net realized gains and losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets;
    •   loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt;
    •   all net realized gains and losses except earned income (periodic settlements and changes in settlement
        accruals) on derivative instruments used for non-qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset replication.
        Earned income on such economic hedges is reclassified from net realized gains and losses to specific
        APTI line items based on the economic risk being hedged (e.g. net investment income);

                                                                                             Page 12 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

    •   income or loss from discontinued operations;
    •   net loss reserve discount benefit (charge);
    •   pension expense related to lump sum payments to former employees;
    •   net gain or loss on divestitures and other;
    •   non-operating litigation reserves and settlements;
    •   restructuring and other costs related to initiatives designed to reduce operating expenses, improve
        efficiency and simplify our organization;
    •   the portion of favorable or unfavorable prior year reserve development for which we have ceded the risk
        under retroactive reinsurance agreements and related changes in amortization of the deferred gain;
    •   integration and transaction costs associated with acquiring or divesting businesses;
    •   losses from the impairment of goodwill;
    •   non-recurring costs associated with the implementation of non-ordinary course legal or regulatory changes
        or changes to accounting principles; and
    •   income from elimination of the international reporting lag.

Adjusted After-tax Income attributable to AIG common shareholders (AATI) is derived by excluding the tax effected
APTI adjustments described above, dividends on preferred stock and preferred stock redemption premiums,
noncontrolling interest on net realized gains (losses), other non-operating expenses and the following tax items
from net income attributable to AIG:
    •   deferred income tax valuation allowance releases and charges;
    •   changes in uncertain tax positions and other tax items related to legacy matters having no relevance to our
        current businesses or operating performance; and
    •   net tax charge related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

See page 15 for the reconciliation of Net income attributable to AIG to Adjusted After-tax Income Attributable to
AIG.

Ratios: We, along with most property and casualty insurance companies, use the loss ratio, the expense ratio and
the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. These ratios are relative measurements that
describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned, the amount of losses and loss adjustment expenses (which for
General Insurance excludes net loss reserve discount), and the amount of other underwriting expenses that would
be incurred. A combined ratio of less than 100 indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio of over 100
indicates an underwriting loss. Our ratios are calculated using the relevant segment information calculated under
GAAP, and thus may not be comparable to similar ratios calculated for regulatory reporting purposes. The
underwriting environment varies across countries and products, as does the degree of litigation activity, all of which
affect such ratios. In addition, investment returns, local taxes, cost of capital, regulation, product type and
competition can have an effect on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting income and
associated ratios.

Accident year loss and Accident year combined ratios, as adjusted (Accident year loss ratio, ex-CAT and Accident
year combined ratio, ex-CAT): both the accident year loss and accident year combined ratios, as adjusted, exclude
catastrophe losses (CATs) and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of premium
adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting. Natural catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic
events, in each case, having a net impact on AIG in excess of $10 million and man-made catastrophe losses, such
as terrorism and civil disorders that exceed the $10 million threshold. We believe that as adjusted ratios are
meaningful measures of our underwriting results on an ongoing basis as they exclude catastrophes and the impact

                                                                                             Page 13 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

of reserve discounting which are outside of management's control. We also exclude prior year development to
provide transparency related to current accident year results.

Underwriting ratios are computed as follows:
    •   Loss ratio = Loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred ÷ Net premiums earned (NPE)
    •   Acquisition ratio = Total acquisition expenses ÷ NPE
    •   General operating expense ratio = General operating expenses ÷ NPE
    •   Expense ratio = Acquisition ratio + General operating expense ratio
    •   Combined ratio = Loss ratio + Expense ratio
    •   CATs and reinstatement premiums ratio = [Loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred - (CATs)] ÷ [NPE
        +/(-) Reinstatement premiums related to catastrophes] - Loss ratio
    •   Accident year loss ratio, as adjusted (AYLR ex-CAT) = [Loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred -
        CATs - PYD] ÷ [NPE +/(-) Reinstatement premiums related to catastrophes +/(-) Prior year premiums +
        Adjustment for ceded premium under reinsurance contracts related to prior accident years]
    •   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted (AYCR ex-CAT) = AYLR ex-CAT + Expense ratio
    •   Prior year development net of reinsurance and prior year premiums ratio = [Loss and loss adjustment
        expenses incurred - CATs - PYD] ÷ [NPE +/(-) Reinstatement premiums related to catastrophes +/(-) Prior
        year premiums] - Loss ratio - CATs and reinstatement premiums ratio.

Results from discontinued operations, including Corebridge, are excluded from all of these measures.

###

American International Group, Inc. (NYSE: AIG) is a leading global insurance organization. AIG provides insurance
solutions that help businesses and individuals in approximately 190 countries and jurisdictions protect their assets
and manage risks through AIG operations and network partners.

AIG is the marketing name for the worldwide operations of American International Group, Inc. All products and
services are written or provided by subsidiaries or affiliates of American International Group, Inc. Products or
services may not be available in all countries and jurisdictions, and coverage is subject to underwriting
requirements and actual policy language. Non-insurance products and services may be provided by independent
third parties. Certain property casualty coverages may be provided by a surplus lines insurer. Surplus lines insurers
do not generally participate in state guaranty funds, and insureds are therefore not protected by such funds.

           American International Group, Inc. Selected Financial Data and Non-GAAP Reconciliation     ($ in
           millions, except per common share data)

           Reconciliations of Adjusted Pre-tax and After-tax Income
                                          Three Months Ended June 30,
                                          2023                              2024
                                              Pr       To       No   Aft      Pr       To      No             Aft
                                              e-       tal      n-   er       e-       tal     n-             er
                                              tax      Ta       co   Ta       tax      Ta      co             Ta
                                                       x        ntr  x                 x       ntr            x
                                                       (B       olli                   (B      olli
                                                       en       ng                     en      ng
                                                       efit     Int                    efit    Int
                                                       )        er                     s)      er
                                                       Ch       est                    Ch      est
                                                       ar       s(c                    ar      s(c
                                                       ge       )                      ge      )

                                                                                          Page 14 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

       Pre-tax income/net income       $ 8     $ 4     $ -     $ 1     $ 6     $ 1     $ -   $ ( )
       (loss), including                 8       5               ,       1       4             3
       noncontrolling interests          6                       6       7       2             ,
                                                                 9                             8
                                                                 1                             8
                                                                                               4
       Noncontrolling interests          -       -       ( )     ( )     -       -       ( )   ( )
                                                         1       1                       9     9
                                                         9       9                       3     3
                                                         8       8
       Pre-tax income/net income         8       4       ( )     1       6       1       ( )   ( )
       (loss) attributable to AIG        8       5       1       ,       1       4       9     3
                                         6               9       4       7       2       3     ,
                                                         8       9                             9
                                                                 3                             7
                                                                                               7
       Dividends on preferred stock                              8                             -
       and preferred stock
       redemption premiums
       Net income (loss)                                         1                             ( )
       attributable to AIG common                                ,                             3
       shareholders                                              4                             ,
                                                                 8                             9
                                                                 5                             7
                                                                                               7
       Adjustments:
       Changes in uncertain tax                  2       -       ( )             2       -     ( )
       positions and other tax                   2               2                             2
       adjustments                               8               2
                                                                 8
       Deferred income tax                       ( )     -       4               1       -     ( )
       valuation allowance                       4               3                             1
       (releases) charges                        3
       Changes in the fair values of     ( )     ( )     -       ( )     ( )     ( )     -     ( )
       equity securities and AIG's       4       9               3       5       1             4
       investment in Corebridge          1                       2       9       2             7
       Loss on extinguishment of         -       -       -       -       1       -       -     1
       debt and preferred stock
       redemption premiums
       Net investment income on          ( )     ( )     -       ( )     ( )     ( )     -     ( )
       Fortitude Re funds withheld       2       5               2       3       7             2
       assets                            5                       0       3                     6
       Net realized losses on            7       2       -       5       1       -       -     1
       Fortitude Re funds withheld
       assets
       Net realized gains on             ( )     ( )     -       ( )     ( )     ( )     -     ( )
       Fortitude Re funds withheld       5       1               4       8       2             6
       embedded derivative               8       2               6
       Net realized losses(a)            6       7       -       5       1       4       -     1
                                         4                       7       8       8             3
                                                                         6                     8
       (Income) loss from                                        ( )                           4
       discontinued operations                                   8                             ,
                                                                 5                             3
                                                                 0                             5
                                                                                               9
       Net (gain) loss on                1       3       -       1       ( )     ( )     -     ( )
       divestitures and other            5                       2       1       1             8
                                                                         0       6             6

                                                                                          Page 15 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

                                                                             2
       Non-operating litigation          1        -       -          1       -       -        -        -
       reserves and settlements
       Favorable prior year              ( )      ( )     -          ( )     ( )     ( )      -        ( )
       development and related           1        4                  1       6       1                 4
       amortization changes ceded        8                           4       2       3                 9
       under retroactive
       reinsurance agreements
       Net loss reserve discount         1        4       -          1       2       5        -        2
       charge                            6                           2       6                         1
       Pension expense related to        5        1       -          4       -       -        -        -
       lump sum payments to              4        1                  3
       former employees
       Integration and transaction       8        2       -          6       1       4        -        1
       costs associated with                                                 8                         4
       acquiring or divesting
       businesses
       Restructuring and other           1        2       -          9       4       9        -        3
       costs(d)                          2        6                  9       2       0                 3
                                         5                                   6                         6
       Non-recurring costs related       7        1       -          6       7       1        -        6
       to regulatory or accounting
       changes
       Noncontrolling interests(c)                        1       1                           9        9
                                                          9       9                           3        3
                                                          8       8
       Adjusted pre-tax               $ 1      $ 2      $ -     $ 7        $ 1     $ 2      $ -      $ 7
       income/Adjusted after-tax        ,        5                7          ,       4                 7
       income attributable to AIG       0        6                7          0       3                 5
       common shareholders              4                                    1
                                        1                                    8


       American International Group, Inc. Selected Financial Data and Non-GAAP Reconciliation
       (continued) ($ in millions, except per common share data)

       Reconciliations of Adjusted Pre-tax and After-tax Income
                                      Six Months Ended June 30,
                                      2023                                 2024
                                          Pr       To       No       Aft     Pr      To       No       Aft
                                          e-       tal      n-       er      e-      tal      n-       er
                                          tax      Ta       co       Ta      tax     Ta       co       Ta
                                                   x        ntr      x               x        ntr      x
                                                   (B       olli                     (B       olli
                                                   en       ng                       en       ng
                                                   efit     Int                      efit     Int
                                                   s)       er                       s)       er
                                                   Ch       est                      Ch       est
                                                   ar       s(c                      ar       s(c
                                                   ge       )                        ge       )
       Pre-tax income/net income      $ 1      $ 1       $ -     $   1     $ 1     $ 4      $ -   $ ( )
       (loss), including                  ,        1                 ,       ,       0              2
       noncontrolling interests           2        0                 6       6       3              ,
                                          8                          0       7                      2
                                          8                          4       5                      8
                                                                                                    4
       Noncontrolling interests          -        -       ( )        ( )     -       -        ( )   ( )
                                                          8          8                        4     4

                                                                                          Page 16 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

                                                   1       1                        7      7
                                                                                    7      7
       Pre-tax income/net income       1     1     ( )     1         1      4       ( )    ( )
       (loss) attributable to AIG      ,     1     8       ,         ,      0       4      2
                                       2     0     1       5         6      3       7      ,
                                       8                   2         7              7      7
                                       8                   3         5                     6
                                                                                           1
       Dividends on preferred stock                        1                               2
       and preferred stock                                 5                               2
       redemption premiums
       Net income (loss)                                   1                               ( )
       attributable to AIG common                          ,                               2
       shareholders                                        5                               ,
                                                           0                               7
                                                           8                               8
                                                                                           3
       Adjustments:
       Changes in uncertain tax        -     2     -       ( )       -      5       -      ( )
       positions and other tax               3             2                               5
       adjustments                           2             3
                                                           2
       Deferred income tax             -     ( )   -       4         -      6       -      ( )
       valuation allowance                   4             6                               6
       (releases) charges                    6
       Changes in the fair values of   ( )   ( )   -       ( )       ( )    ( )     -      ( )
       equity securities and AIG's     6     1             4         1      3              1
       investment in Corebridge        2     3             9         4      1              1
                                                                     7                     6
       Loss on extinguishment of       -     -     -       -         1      -       -      1
       debt and preferred stock                                                            6
       redemption premiums
       Net investment income on        ( )   ( )   -       ( )       ( )    ( )     -      ( )
       Fortitude Re funds withheld     7     1             6         7      1              5
       assets                          7     6             1         2      5              7
       Net realized losses on          6     1     -       4         2      4       -      1
       Fortitude Re funds withheld     1     3             8         0                     6
       assets
       Net realized (gains) losses     8     1     -       6         1      -       -      1
       on Fortitude Re funds           2     7             5
       withheld embedded
       derivative
       Net realized losses(a)          3     8     -       2         2      5       -      1
                                       8     9             9         4      5              8
                                       3                   4         1                     6
       (Income) loss from                                  ( )                             3
       discontinued operations                             4                               ,
                                                           2                               5
                                                           6                               5
                                                                                           6
       Net (gain) loss on              1     2     -       1         ( )    ( )     -      ( )
       divestitures and other          2                   0         1      1              8
                                                                     0      6              6
                                                                     2
       Non-operating litigation        -     -     -       -         -      -       -      -
       reserves and settlements
       Favorable prior year            ( )   ( )   -       ( )       ( )    ( )     -      ( )
       development and related         3     8             2         6      1              4

                                                                                          Page 17 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

       amortization changes ceded        7                          9           0        3                 7
       under retroactive
       reinsurance agreements
       Net loss reserve discount         8        1        -        6           1        2        -        8
       charge                            0        7                 3           0        1                 1
                                                                                2
       Pension expense related to        5        1        -        4           -        -        -        -
       lump sum payments to              4        1                 3
       former employees
       Integration and transaction       8        2        -        6           1        3        -        1
       costs associated with                                                    5                          2
       acquiring or divesting
       businesses
       Restructuring and other           2        4        -        1           4        1        -        3
       costs(d)                          1        5                 7           9        0                 8
                                         5                          0           3        4                 9
       Non-recurring costs related       1        3        -        1           1        2        -        9
       to regulatory or accounting       5                          2           1
       changes
       Net impact from elimination       ( )      ( )      -        ( )         -        -        -        -
       of international reporting        1        3                 9
       lag(b)                            2
       Noncontrolling interests(c)                         8        8                            4        4
                                                           1        1                            7        7
                                                                                                 7        7
       Adjusted pre-tax               $ 2      $ 4       $ -     $ 1         $ 2      $ 5      $ -      $ 1
       income/Adjusted after-tax        ,        5                 ,           ,        2                 ,
       income attributable to AIG       0        5                 5           1        8                 6
       common shareholders              1                          4           7                          4
                                        0                          0           8                          3
  (   Includes all net realized gains and losses except earned income (periodic settlements and changes in
  a   settlement accruals) on derivative instruments used for non-qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset
  )   replication and net realized gains and losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets.
  (   Effective in the quarter ended December 31, 2022, the foreign property and casualty subsidiaries report on a
  b   calendar year ending December 31. We determined that the effect of not retroactively applying this change
  )   was immaterial to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the current and prior periods. Therefore, we
      reported the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle within the Consolidated Statements of
      Income (Loss) for the year ended December 31, 2022 and did not retrospectively apply the effects of this
      change to prior periods.
  (   Noncontrolling interest primarily relates to Corebridge and is the portion of Corebridge earnings that AIG did
  c   not own. Corebridge is consolidated until June 9, 2024. The historical results of Corebridge owned by AIG are
  )   reflected in the Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes.
  (   In three and six months ended June 30, 2034, restructuring and other costs increased primarily as a result of
  d   employee-related costs, including severance, and real estate impairment charges.
  )


      American International Group, Inc. Selected Financial Data and Non-GAAP Reconciliation (continued)
      ($ in millions, except per common share data)

      Summary of Key Financial Metrics
                                                      Three Months Ended            Six Months Ended
                                                      June 30,                      June 30,
      Earnings per common share:                        2      2     %                 2     2      %
                                                        0      0     Inc.              0     0      Inc
                                                        2      2     (De               2     2      .
                                                        3      4     c.)               3     4      (D
                                                                                                    ec.

                                                                                          Page 18 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

                                                                                                 )
      Basic
      Income from continuing operations             $ 1    $ 0       (    ) %       $ 1   $ 1    17.     %
                                                      .      .       3                .     .    0
                                                      1      7       7                5     8
                                                      5      2       .                9     6
                                                                     4
      Income (loss) from discontinued operations       0     (     ) N                0     (   ) N
                                                       .     6       M                .     6     M
                                                       9     .                        4     .
                                                       0     7                        7     0
                                                             4                              0
      Net income (loss) attributable to AIG         $ 2    $ (     ) N              $ 2   $ (   ) N
      common shareholders                             .      6       M                .     4     M
                                                      0      .                        0     .
                                                      5      0                        6     1
                                                             2                              4
      Diluted
      Income from continuing operations             $ 1    $ 0       (    )         $ 1   $ 1    17.
                                                      .      .       3                .     .    1
                                                      1      7       7                5     8
                                                      4      1       .                8     5
                                                                     7
      Income (loss) from discontinued operations       0     (     ) N                0     (   ) N
                                                       .     6       M                .     5     M
                                                       8     .                        4     .
                                                       9     6                        7     9
                                                             7                              6
      Net income (loss) attributable to AIG         $ 2    $ (     ) N              $ 2   $ (   ) N
      common shareholders                             .      5       M                .     4     M
                                                      0      .                        0     .
                                                      3      9                        5     1
                                                             6                              1
      Adjusted after-tax income attributable to     $ 1    $ 1       9        %     $ 2   $ 2    16.     %
      AIG common shareholders per diluted             .      .       .                .     .    3
      share                                           0      1       4                0     4
                                                      6      6                        9     3
      Weighted average shares outstanding:
      Basic                                            7      6                       7     6
                                                       2      6                       3     7
                                                       5      1                       2     1
                                                       .      .                       .     .
                                                       8      1                       2     8
      Diluted                                          7      6                       7     6
                                                       3      6                       3     7
                                                       0      7                       7     7
                                                       .      .                       .     .
                                                       5      0                       3     5
   Reconciliation of Adjusted After-tax Income, Comparable Basis
                                                                                           Three Months Ended
                                                                                           June 30,
                                                                                             2023         20
                                                                                                          24
   Adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders, as reported          $ 77         $ 77
                                                                                             7            5
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re                                                         (16 )        -
                                                                                             3

                                                                                          Page 19 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

   Adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders, comparable basis             61                   77
                                                                                                   4                    5
   Adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders per diluted share,            0.8                  1.1
   comparable basis                                                                                4                    6

   Reconciliation of Net Investment Income
                                                                                                   Three Months
                                                                                                   Ended
                                                                                                   June 30,
                                                                                                   202         202
                                                                                                   3           4
   Net Investment Income per Consolidated Statements of Operations                               $ 8        $ 9
                                                                                                   3           9
                                                                                                   7           0
   Changes in the fair values of equity securities and AIG's investment in Corebridge              (   )       (   )
                                                                                                   4           5
                                                                                                   1           9
   Net investment income on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets                                     (   )       (   )
                                                                                                   2           3
                                                                                                   5           3
   Net realized gains (losses) related to economic hedges and other                                4           (   )
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                               4
   Total Net Investment Income - APTI Basis                                                      $ 7        $ 8
                                                                                                   7           8
                                                                                                   5           4

   General Insurance Net Investment Income, APTI basis                                           $ 7             $ 7
                                                                                                   2               4
                                                                                                   5               6
   Validus Re impact                                                                               (     )         -
                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                   4
   General Insurance Net Investment Income, APTI basis, excluding Validus Re                     $ 6             $ 7
                                                                                                   8               4
                                                                                                   1               6


   American International Group, Inc. Selected Financial Data and Non-GAAP Reconciliation (continued)              ($ in
   millions, except per common share data)

   Reconciliation of Book Value per Share
   As of period end:                                                                June 30,                 June 30,
                                                                                    2023                     2024
   Total AIG shareholders' equity                                                   $ 42,454                 $ 44,44
                                                                                                               5
   Less: Preferred equity                                                               485                    -
   Total AIG common shareholders' equity (a)                                            41,969                 44,44
                                                                                                               5

   Less: Investments AOCI                                                               (16,715    )           (3,46       )
                                                                                                               0
   Add: Cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re Funds            (2,331     )           (615        )
   withheld assets
   Subtotal Investments AOCI                                                            (14,384    )           (2,84       )
                                                                                                               5
   Total adjusted common shareholders' equity (b)                                   $ 56,353                 $ 47,29

                                                                                          Page 20 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

                                                                                                             0

   Less: Intangible assets:
   Goodwill                                                                         3,445                    3,407
   Value of distribution channel acquired                                           185                      136
   Other intangibles                                                                234                      249
   Total intangible assets                                                          3,864                    3,792
   Total adjusted tangible common shareholders' equity (c)                        $ 38,105                 $ 40,65
                                                                                                             3

   Less: AIG's ownership interest in Corebridge                                      7,353                   8,567
   Less: Investments related AOCI - AIG                                              (4,870        )         (3,46        )
                                                                                                             0
   Add: Cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds         (654          )         (615         )
   withheld assets - AIG
   Subtotal Investments AOCI - AIG                                                   (4,216        )         (2,84        )
                                                                                                             5
   Less: Deferred tax assets                                                        4,263                    4,059
   AIG core operating shareholders' equity (d)                                    $ 34,569                 $ 34,66
                                                                                                             4
   Total common shares outstanding (e)                                               717.5                   649.8

    As of period end:                                                           June             June       % Inc.
                                                                                30,              30,        (Dec.)
                                                                                2023             2024
    Book value per share (a÷e)                                                  $ 58.4           $ 68.4     16.   %
                                                                                   9                0       9
    Adjusted book value per share (b÷e)                                            78.5             72.7    (7.   )
                                                                                   4                8       3
    Adjusted tangible book value per share (c÷e)                                   53.1             62.5    17.
                                                                                   1                6       8
    Core operating book value per share (d÷e)                                      48.1             53.3    10.
                                                                                   8                5       7


   American International Group, Inc. Selected Financial Data and Non-GAAP Reconciliation (continued)             ($ in
   millions, except per common share data)

   Reconciliation of Return On Equity
                                                                               Three Months Ended June 30,
                                                                                 2023             2024
   Actual or annualized net income (loss) attributable to AIG common           $ 5,940          $ (15,908 )
   shareholders (a)
   Actual or annualized adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG          $ 3,108                 $ 3,100
   common shareholders (b)

   Average AIG adjusted common shareholders' equity
   Average AIG Common Shareholders' equity (c)                                 $ 42,401                $ 43,915
   Less: Average investments AOCI                                                (14,615     )           (6,355       )
   Average adjusted common shareholders' equity (d)                            $ 57,016                $ 50,270

   Average AIG tangible common shareholders' equity
   Average AIG Common Shareholders' equity                                     $ 42,401                $ 43,915
   Less: Average intangibles                                                     4,156                   3,796

                                                                                          Page 21 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

   Average AIG tangible common shareholders' equity (e)                     $ 38,245              $ 40,119

   Average AIG core operating shareholders' equity
   Average AIG common shareholders' equity                                  $ 42,401              $ 43,915
   Less: Average AIG's ownership interest in Corebridge                       7,812                 7,580
   Less: Average investments AOCI - AIG                                       (3,941     )          (2,748         )
   Less: Average deferred tax assets                                          4,403                 4,106
   Average AIG core operating shareholders' equity (f)                      $ 34,127              $ 34,977

   ROE (a÷c)                                                                   14.0           %       NM               %
   Adjusted return on equity (b÷d)                                             5.5            %       6.2              %
   Return on tangible equity (b÷e)                                             8.1            %       7.7              %
   Core operating ROE (b÷f)                                                    9.1            %       8.9              %

   Reconciliation of Total Debt to Total Capital
                                                                                                      Three
                                                                                                      Months
                                                                                                      Ended
                                                                                                      June 30,
                                                                                                      2024
   Total financial and hybrid debt                                                                    $ 9,823

   Total capital                                                                                      $ 54,298
   Less non-redeemable noncontrolling interests                                                         30
   Less Investments AOCI                                                                                (2,845         )
   Total adjusted capital                                                                             $ 57,113

   Hybrid - debt securities / Total capital                                                              1.8           %
   Financial debt and debt held for sale / Total capital                                                 16.3
   Total debt / Total capital                                                                            18.1          %
   Total debt / Total adjusted capital                                                                   17.2          %

          American International Group, Inc. Selected Financial Data and Non-GAAP Reconciliation
          (continued) ($ in millions, except per common share data)

          Reconciliation of Net Premiums Written - Comparable Basis
                                                    Three Months Ended June 30, 2024
                                                                           North
                                                             Glob Glob Americ          International
                                                             al -   al -   a-
                                                    Genera Com Pers Comm               Comm           Person
                                                    l        mer    onal ercial        ercial         al
                                                             cial
                                                    Insuran Line Insu Lines            Lines          Insuran
                                                    ce       s      ranc                              ce
                                                                    e
          Change in net premiums written
          Increase (decrease) as reported in           (   ) (    ) (    )    (   )       2       %     (      )
          U.S. dollars                                 8 % 1 % 0 %            1 %         .             3      %
                                                       .     0      .         9           7             .
                                                       0     .      3         .                         9
                                                             6                4
          Foreign exchange effect                      1     0      5         0           1             7
                                                       .     .      .         .           .             .

                                                                                          Page 22 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

                                                       6     5      3         1             4           3
         Validus Re                                    1     1      -         2             2           -
                                                       3     8                9             .
                                                       .     .                .             0
                                                       8     4                6
         Increase (decrease) on comparable             7   % 8   % 5    %     1   %         6   %       3   %
         basis                                         .     .     .          0             .           .
                                                       4     3     0          .             1           4
                                                                              3

         Net premiums written as reported in       $ 7                      $ 3           $ 2     $ 1
         U.S. dollars                                ,                        ,             ,       ,
                                                     5                        4             2       3
                                                     3                        1             2       4
                                                     7                        0             3       1
         Foreign exchange effect                     (     )                  (   )         (   )   (       )
                                                     1                        1             3       9
                                                     2                                      0       5
                                                     6
         Validus Re                                  (     )                  (   )         (   )       -
                                                     9                        9             4
                                                     5                        1             0
                                                     5                        5
         Net premiums written on comparable        $ 6                      $ 2           $ 2         $ 1
         basis                                       ,                        ,             ,           ,
                                                     4                        4             1           2
                                                     5                        9             5           4
                                                     6                        4             3           6
   Reconciliations of Accident Year Loss and Accident Year Combined Ratios, as Adjusted

                                                                                            Three Months Ended
                                                                                            June 30,
                                                                                              2023       2024
   Total General Insurance
   Combined ratio                                                                               90.             92.
                                                                                                9               5
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                                (3.    )        (5.   )
                                                                                                9               7
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums                           1.0             0.8
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                                                    88.             87.
                                                                                                0               6
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re impact                                                     1.3             -
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, comparable basis                                  89.             87.
                                                                                                3               6

   Combined ratio                                                                               90.             92.
                                                                                                9               5
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re impact                                                     1.5             -
   Combined ratio, comparable basis                                                             92.             92.
                                                                                                4               5

   General operating expense ratio                                                              12.             12.
                                                                                                1               4
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re impact                                                     1.3             -
   General operating expense ratio, comparable basis                                            13.             12.

                                                                                          Page 23 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

                                                                                               4              4

   North America - Commercial Lines
   Loss ratio                                                                                  61.            67.
                                                                                               0              4
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                               (5.       )    (7.     )
                                                                                               3              3
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums                          4.8            1.8
   Accident year loss ratio, as adjusted                                                       60.            61.
                                                                                               5              9

   Combined ratio                                                                              85.            90.
                                                                                               6              2
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                               (5.       )    (7.     )
                                                                                               3              3
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums                          4.8            1.8
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                                                   85.            84.
                                                                                               1              7
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re impact                                                    2.1            -
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, comparable basis                                 87.            84.
                                                                                               2              7

   Combined ratio                                                                              85.            90.
                                                                                               6              2
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re impact                                                    1.9            -
   Combined ratio, comparable basis                                                            87.            90.
                                                                                               5              2

   North America - Personal Insurance
   Loss ratio                                                                                  61.            57.
                                                                                               4              2
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                               (3.       )    (3.     )
                                                                                               3              6
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums                          (2.       )    0.1
                                                                                               5
   Accident year loss ratio, as adjusted                                                       55.            53.
                                                                                               6              7


   American International Group, Inc. Selected Financial Data and Non-GAAP Reconciliation (continued)         ($ in
   millions, except per common share data)

   Reconciliations of Accident Year Loss and Accident Year Combined Ratios, as Adjusted

                                                                                          Three Months Ended
                                                                                          June 30,
                                                                                            2023        2024
   North America - Personal Insurance
   Combined ratio                                                                           112.             105.
                                                                                            9                3
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                            (3.3     )       (3.6     )
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums                       (2.5     )       0.1
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                                                107.             101.
                                                                                            1                8

                                                                                          Page 24 of 25
AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation


   International - Commercial Lines
   Combined ratio                                                                89.0        88.6
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                 (2.5   )    (6.7     )
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums            (3.4   )    0.2
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                                     83.1        82.1
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re impact                                      0.3         -
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, comparable basis                   83.4        82.1

   Combined ratio                                                                89.0        88.6
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re impact                                      -           -
   Combined ratio, comparable basis                                              89.0        88.6

   International - Personal Insurance
   Combined ratio                                                                98.0        97.0
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                 (3.2   )    (2.4     )
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums            0.5         0.2
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                                     95.3        94.8

   Global - Commercial Lines
   Combined ratio                                                                87.0        89.5
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                 (4.0   )    (7.0     )
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums            1.4         1.0
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                                     84.4        83.5
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re impact                                      0.9         -
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted, comparable basis                   85.3        83.5

   Global - Personal Insurance
   Combined ratio                                                                101.        99.4
                                                                                 5
   Catastrophe losses and reinstatement premiums                                 (3.3   )    (2.8     )
   Prior year development, net of reinsurance and prior year premiums            (0.1   )    0.2
   Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted                                     98.1        96.8

   Reconciliation of General Insurance Underwriting Income
                                                                                 Three Months Ended
                                                                                 June 30,
                                                                                   2023         20
                                                                                                24
   Underwriting income, as reported                                              $ 59         $ 43
                                                                                   4            0
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re                                               (17 )        -
                                                                                   4
   Underwriting income, excluding Crop Risk Services and Validus Re              $ 42         $ 43
                                                                                   0            0

   Reconciliation of General Insurance Adjusted Pre-tax Income
                                                                        Three Months Ended June 30,
                                                                          2023            2024
   Adjusted Pre-tax income, as reported                                 $ 1,319        $ 1,176
   Crop Risk Services and Validus Re                                      (218    )       -
   Adjusted Pre-tax income, comparable basis                            $ 1,101        $ 1,176

                                                                                             Page 25 of 25
   AIG Reports Exceptional Second Quarter 2024 Results Second Quarter 2024 Results Reflect the Successful
                                   Corebridge Financial Deconsolidation

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240731351345/en/


CONTACT: Quentin McMillan (Investors): quentin.mcmillan@aig.com

Claire Talcott (Media): claire.talcott@aig.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 31, 2024


  
