

                                                                             Page 1 of 4
    FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON JULY 31, 2024




       FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS
                     CONFERENCE ON JULY 31, 2024
                                                 States News Service
                                              July 31, 2024 Wednesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2296 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BEIJING, China

Body


The following information was released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China:

At the invitation of Mohamed Ould Cheikh Ghazouani, President of The Islamic Republic of Mauritania, President Xi
Jinping's Special Envoy and Vice Chairperson of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference Wang Guangqian will attend President Ghazouani's inauguration in Nouakchott, the
capital of Mauritania, on August 1.

Al Jazeera: The Palestinian Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas) said in a statement that its leader Ismail
Haniyeh was killed in an Israeli air raid on his residence in Tehran. What is the Foreign Ministry's comment on
this?"

Lin Jian: We are closely following the incident. China firmly opposes and condemns the act of assassination and is
deeply concerned that the incident may plunge the region into greater turmoil. China has been calling for settling
regional disputes through negotiation and dialogue and an early, comprehensive and permanent ceasefire in Gaza
and there should be no more escalation of the conflict and confrontation.

CCTV: Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni just concluded her visit to China. We noted that she said at a press
briefing yesterday that it's possible to rebuild closer cooperation with China, and that this visit which coincides with
the 700th anniversary of Marco Polo's death defines the depth of China-Italy relations. She was "very satisfied" with
the trip. Could you share more details with us?

Lin Jian: At the invitation of Premier Li Qiang, Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni paid an official visit to China
from July 27 to 31. In Beijing, President Xi Jinping met with her. Premier Li Qiang and Chairman Zhao Leji of the
Standing Committee of the National People's Congress had talks and met with her. This visit took place as the two
countries mark the 20th anniversary of their comprehensive strategic partnership. During the visit, the two sides
issued an action plan (2024-2027) to strengthen comprehensive strategic partnership. They stressed that the two
countries stand ready to carry forward the Silk Road spirit that dates back centuries, deepen mutually beneficial
cooperation, promote mutual learning among civilizations, elevate bilateral relations, and make greater contribution
to a peaceful, stable, and prosperous world. During the visit, the two prime ministers attended the opening

                                                                            Page 2 of 4
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON JULY 31, 2024

ceremony of the seventh meeting of the China-Italy Entrepreneurs Committee, and witnessed the signing of a
number of bilateral cooperation documents on industry, education, environmental protection, geographical
indications and food safety. Prime Minister Meloni also visited Shanghai.

During the meetings and talks, the leaders of the two countries had an in-depth exchange of views on China-Italy
relations, China-EU relations and the international landscape. The two sides were of the view that the friendly
exchanges between the two countries date back centuries, and contribute to the exchanges and mutual learning
between eastern and western civilizations. These exchanges will carry forward the tradition of friendship between
the two countries, maintain the momentum of high-level exchanges, enhance political mutual trust, and make the
bilateral relations more resilient, mature and stable. Italy reaffirmed its commitment to the one-China policy. The two
sides agreed to make full use of the China-Italy Government Committee and dialogues and platforms in various
fields, and to step up practical cooperation in such areas as trade and investment, industrial manufacturing,
technological innovation, green energy and artificial intelligence. This year marks the 700th anniversary of Marco
Polo's death. The two countries will use this opportunity to deepen exchanges and cooperation in culture,
education, tourism, sports, and other fields, and further strengthen the bond between the two countries. The two
sides support China and the EU in deepening the comprehensive strategic partnership, settling differences properly
through dialogue and consultation, and avoiding escalation of trade frictions. Both the Chinese and Italian sides
expressed readiness to strengthen multilateral coordination, oppose division, confrontation, decoupling and
severing supply chains, and jointly address global challenges.

Reuters: Ukraine has invited Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi to visit and Ukrainian Foreign Minister said work
towards a possible meeting between the Ukrainian and Chinese presidents was constant. Will Minister Wang Yi
accept the invitation to visit Kyiv? And when could the visit take place? A second question about this is, are the
plans for a meeting between both presidents in the works?

Lin Jian: China is ready to maintain communication with Ukraine on bilateral interactions. On the specific questions
you asked, I have no information to share.

Beijing Daily: It was reported that on July 30, massive landslides struck Wayanad district in the southwestern Indian
state of Kerala, killing over 100 people. On the same day, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed
condolences over the lives lost and "assured all possible help from the Centre" on a social media platform. Has the
Chinese side expressed sympathies to the Indian side? Are any Chinese nationals killed or injured in the
landslides?

Lin Jian: We saw the news about the massive landslides in the Indian state of Kerala. We express deep
condolences over the lives lost, and heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved families and the injured, and we wish
those who are injured speedy recovery. Based on the information gathered by the Chinese Embassy in India, no
Chinese deaths or injuries have so far been reported.

Global Times: On July 30, Philippine Foreign Secretary Enrique Manalo, when answering a question at a joint press
availability after the Philippines-US 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue, said that the Mid-Range Capability missile system the
US deployed in the Philippines is meant for the Philippines' own defensive capabilities, not meant for any offensive
purposes, so it would not lead to an arms race. Does China have any comment on that?

Lin Jian: On the US deployment of Mid-Range Capability missile system in the Philippines, China has made clear
its just position more than once. Let me stress once again that by letting the US deploy the missile system on
Philippine soil, the Philippines is enabling a country outside the region to fuel tensions and antagonism in this
region, and incite geopolitical confrontation and arms race. This region cherishes peace and prosperity, and does
not need those missiles and confrontation. We urge relevant countries to heed the call of countries in the region,
stop doing the wrong thing sooner rather than later, quickly pull out the missile system as publicly pledged, and stop
prolonging the wrongful act.

AFP: US Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced yesterday that the US will provide US$ 500 million in
funding for the Philippines to boost its defense capability. What is China's comment on this?

                                                                            Page 3 of 4
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON JULY 31, 2024

Lin Jian: China made clear its position on the military cooperation between the US and the Philippines more than
once. The US is not a party to the issue of the South China Sea and has no right to interfere in the maritime issues
between China and the Philippines. The Philippines needs to see that ganging up with countries outside the region
to engage in confrontation in the South China Sea will only destabilize the region and create more tensions. To
seek security assurance from external forces will only lead to greater insecurity and turn oneself into someone
else's chess piece. Any moves to resort to bloc politics and military confrontation will not be popular among the
people and will not succeed. Our message for relevant country is that the only proven way to protect one's own
security and keep the region peaceful and stable is to commit oneself to good-neighborliness, return to dialogue
and consultation and maintain strategic independence.""

Kyodo News: Yesterday, Director General of the Foreign Ministry's Department of Asian Affairs met with the chief
minister of the Japanese Embassy in China to lodge protests and express serious concern and dissatisfaction
regarding the Japan-US 2+2 meeting, the Japan-US ministerial meeting on extended deterrence, among others.
Could you share more details with us?

Lin Jian: A readout was issued on the meeting and protest that you mentioned, which you may refer to. Yesterday, I
fully elaborated on China's position on the negative statement and remarks made during the Japan-US 2+2
meeting, the Japan-US ministerial meeting on extended deterrence, and other meetings.

Reuters: The Biden administration plans to unveil a new rule next month that will expand US powers to stop exports
of semiconductor manufacturing equipment from some foreign countries to Chinese chip makers. This is a Reuters
report citing sources. This new rule will exclude shipments from Japan, the Netherlands and South Korea. What is
China's take on this development?

Lin Jian: China made clear its position multiple times on the US's malicious attempts to block and suppress China's
semiconductor industry. The US continues to politicize trade and tech issues, tie them to national security and uses
them as a weapon to tighten control over chip export to China and coerce other countries to go after China's
semiconductor industry, which severely undermines international trade rules, destabilizes global industrial and
supply chains, and serves no one's interests. China firmly opposes it.

Let me stress that containing and going after China will not stop China's development, but will only make China
even more determined and capable in boosting our own strength in tech and innovation. China will keep a close eye
on relevant developments, and firmly safeguard its legitimate rights and interests. We hope relevant countries will
firmly resist the coercion, and jointly uphold a fair and open international trade order to protect their own long-term
interests.

China Review News: It's reported the leader of the Taiwan region Lai Ching-te said on July 30 at the summit of the
"Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China" that the Chinese mainland misinterprets the UNGA Resolution 2758 to
impede Taiwan's efforts to take part in international organizations and to construct a basis for China's military
"aggression against Taiwan." What's your response?

Lin Jian: There is but one China in the world. Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory. This is an undeniable
fact.

The UNGA Resolution 2758 settled once and for all the question of the representation of the whole of China,
including Taiwan, in the United Nations. The Resolution made it clear that there is but one China in the world and
Taiwan is part of China, not a country. It also made clear that there is only one seat of China in the United Nations,
and the representatives of the Government of the People's Republic of China are the only lawful representatives of
China to the United Nations, precluding "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan." The one-China principle is
observed by the UN and its specialized agencies on the Taiwan question. Taiwan is referred to as "Taiwan,
province of China" in all UN's official documents. It was clearly stated in the official legal opinions of the Office of
Legal Affairs of the UN Secretariat that "the United Nations considers 'Taiwan' as a province of China with no
separate status," and the "'authorities' in 'Taipei' are not considered to ... enjoy any form of government status."

                                                                            Page 4 of 4
   FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON LIN JIAN'S REGULAR PRESS CONFERENCE ON JULY 31, 2024

UNGA Resolution 2758 contains unequivocal recognition of the one-China principlea basic norm and prevailing
consensus for the global community, there is no way to "misinterpret" that. Taiwan, being part of China, simply does
not qualify for "sovereign status". The Taiwan region's participation in the activities of international organizations
should and can only be handled in line with the one-China principle. Taiwan is definitely not inherently entitled to
"participation in international organizations".

I would like to stress again that the one-China principle is unshakable and the trend of China realizing reunification
is unstoppable. "Taiwan independence" separatism is a dead end. Whatever the Lai Ching-te authorities say or do,
it does not change the fact that both sides of the Taiwan Strait belong to one and the same China or the legal status
of the UNGA Resolution 2758, and still less the historic trend that China will and must achieve reunification.

***********************************************

The following question was raised after the press conference: It's reported that torrential rain recently hit the border
areas between China and the DPRK with the Yalv River far exceeding the warning level. North Pyongan Province
and Chagang Province suffered from severe flooding. What's China's comment?

Lin Jian: Due to heavy rainfall, the Yalv River has exceeded its warning" level and relevant China-DPRK border
areas face severe flooding. We noted the flooding in the DPRK's North Pyongan Province and Chagang Province,
and the fatalities and property loss it has caused. As the DPRK's traditional friend and neighbor, China is paying
close attention to the flooding and expresses heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved families and those who are
affected. We believe that the people of the DPRK are capable of overcoming the impact of the disaster and
rebuilding their homes soon. In the meanwhile, areas on the Chinese side near the border have also been hit by
severe flooding. We hope the two sides will share flood information in a timely way to better prevent the flooding
and ensure the safety of people's life and property in relevant areas of the two countries.


Load-Date: July 31, 2024


  
