

                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
  ARM & HAMMER™ Cat Litter and the ASPCA® Create AI-Generated "Purrsonality Pics" to Boost Cat Adoption




        ARM & HAMMER™ Cat Litter and the ASPCA® Create AI-Generated
                 "Purrsonality Pics" to Boost Cat Adoption
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           July 17, 2024 Wednesday 8:04 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 910 words
Dateline: EWING, N.J., July 17, 2024

Body


PR NewswireEWING, N.J., July 17, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --ARM & HAMMER™ Cat Litterand theASPCA® (The
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals)celebrated Adopt a Shelter Cat Month in June by
unveiling AI-generated"Purrsonality Pics"during the ASPCA's virtual cat adoption event. Using generative artificial
intelligence (AI), ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter provided playful and captivating cat portraits based on each cat's
individual personality to enhance connections with potential adopters. The event helped increase awareness for
these lovable cats and ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter's online match campaign raised $200,000 in 72 hours for the
ASPCA.

 Cats often have complex personalities that are hard for shelters to convey to potential adopters. In unfamiliar
surroundings like a shelter, cats may appear scared, leading to adoption photos that don't reflect their true nature.
To address this, ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter and its creative agency,Razorfish, built an AI tool to generate thumb-
stopping cat portraits that capture people's attention and hearts while scrolling. The AI "Purrsonality Pics" highlight
the unique charm of each cat, making it easier for cat lovers to connect with them at a glance."Purrsonality Pics
uses AI to reveal the unique personalities of shelter cats in ways traditional photos can't," said Jamie Perruquet,
SVP Executive Creative Director at Razorfish. "By conveying each cat's authentic character—whether it's playful,
curious, feisty, or affectionate—this tool helps potential adopters connect more deeply, leading to better adoption
matches. It's a powerful example of AI being used in a creative way for good and gives otherwise overlooked
shelter cats a greater chance at finding their new families."The ASPCA and ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter will be co-
hosting their third virtual cat adoption event featuring several more Purrsonality Pics onWednesday, July 24,
2024onFacebookandInstagram."We have so many wonderful cats in our New York City and Los Angeles foster and
adoption programs waiting to find loving homes, but it can be difficult to grab people's attention on social media and
effectively showcase the cats' wonderful personalities," said Christina Wyman, Vice President of Cause
Partnerships at the ASPCA. "During our virtual adoption events, cat lovers appreciated the heartwarming
characteristics of our cats displayed in their Purrsonality Pics and prospective adopters were able to gain a sense of
who the cats were prior to meeting them in person. This resulted in more visibility for a handsome cat named Torta,
who was adopted in early July."According to the ASPCA, approximately 3.2 million cats enter U.S. animal shelters
and rescues nationwide yearly, but only 2.1 million cats are adopted each year. This is one reason ARM &
HAMMER created itsFeline Generousprogram, with initiatives throughout the year dedicated to helping shelter cats
find loving homes, especially those that are overlooked due to age, appearance, or misunderstood personality. In
addition to the work with the ASPCA, the ARM & HAMMER Feline Generous program will donate $50,000 to help

                                                                                            Page 2 of 2
  ARM & HAMMER™ Cat Litter and the ASPCA® Create AI-Generated "Purrsonality Pics" to Boost Cat Adoption

shelter cats find loving homes."ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter is honored to have partnered with the ASPCA on our
Feline Generous program since 2018, and more recently, to leverage AI to help elevate such a meaningful cause,"
said Carly Catalano, Associate Director, ARM & HAMMER™ Pet Care. "We're always looking for new ways to shed
light on cat welfare organizations and help them find loving homes for their cats. Purrsonality Pics make the process
of creating adoption profiles easier for shelters and our hope is that it will help connect more cats with loving
families even faster."To see more AI-generated Purrsonality Pics or for more information about adopting a cat
through the ASPCA, please visitthis pageoraspca.org/adopt.About ARM & HAMMER™For more than 170 years,
ARM & HAMMER™ Baking Soda's familiar orange box has been a trusted fixture in both the refrigerator and home.
The brand was founded in 1846 when Dr. Austin Church and John Dwight began to produce and sell sodium
bicarbonate under the ARM & HAMMER™ brand name. Today, Church & Dwight, Co., Inc. manufactures a variety
of cleaning, freshening, and deodorizing products for the home, family, pets, and body under the iconic ARM &
HAMMER™ brand name. To learn more follow us onFacebook.About the ASPCA®Founded in 1866, the ASPCA®
(The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals®) was the first animal welfare organization to be
established in North America and today serves as the nation's leading voice for vulnerable and victimized animals.
As a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation with more than two million supporters nationwide, the ASPCA is committed
to preventing cruelty to dogs, cats, equines, and farm animals throughout the United States. The ASPCA assists
animals in need through on-the-ground disaster adn cruelty interventions, behavioral rehabilitation, animal
placement, legal and legislative advocacy, and the advancement of the sheltering and veterinary community
through research, training, and resources. For more information, visitwww.ASPCA.org, and follow the ASPCA
onFacebook,Twitter,X,InstagramandTikTok.                   View        original      content        to      download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/arm--hammer-cat-litter-and-the-aspca-create-ai-generated-
purrsonality-pics-to-boost-cat-adoption-302198672.htmlSOURCE Church & Dwight Co., Inc.


Load-Date: July 17, 2024


  
