

                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
     PAC Storage Unveils Advanced NVMe System for AI and New High-Capacity 30TB NVMe and 24TB HDD
                    Drives Latest Addition to PAC’s All-Flash Storage Line Excels in Pe....




PAC Storage Unveils Advanced NVMe System for AI and New High-Capacity
  30TB NVMe and 24TB HDD Drives; Latest Addition to PAC’s All-Flash
         Storage Line Excels in Performance and Cost Efficiency
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                               July 16, 2024 Tuesday 7:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 501 words

Body

ALISO VIEJO, CA, July 16, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- PAC Storage, a leading manufacturer and provider of
innovative data storage solutions, today announced the launch of its cutting edge NVMe system, the PAC Storage
NVMe 5000. This latest addition to PAC Storage's all-flash storage family delivers up to 1.3M IOPS, 50GB/s
throughput, and 720TB NVMe capacity within a single appliance.

"With the growing need for extreme I/O and throughput in AI, HPC, machine learning, database, and the latest
video applications, PAC Storage is providing a solution that excels in both performance and cost-efficiency," said
Rick Crane, CEO of PAC Storage. "Our systems not only offer top-tier performance and availability, but do so at
roughly half the cost of comparable systems.”

The competitively-priced PAC Storage NVMe 5000 features a dual-controller system which supports PCIe Gen5
with up to 200GbE connectivity and runs block, file, and object storage along with cloud gateway options. Designed
for data-intensive environments, PAC Storage NVMe 5000 excels in applications demanding high IOPS,
exceptional throughput, and minimal latency.

In conjunction with the new NVMe system, PAC Storage is also introducing high-capacity 30TB NVMe and 24TB
HDD drives. These high-density drives maximize space by reducing an organization’s datacenter footprint. With
these latest drives, the PAC Systems are now scalable up to 21PB, with up to 2.1PB of hybrid storage and 1.4PB of
NVMe storage in a single appliance. PAC Storage systems exclusively use enterprise-grade, pre-certified drives,
ensuring reliability and performance. Most systems ship within two to three weeks.

                                                                                           Page 2 of 2
    PAC Storage Unveils Advanced NVMe System for AI and New High-Capacity 30TB NVMe and 24TB HDD
                   Drives Latest Addition to PAC’s All-Flash Storage Line Excels in Pe....

“The introduction of both the PAC Storage NVMe 5000 and the new high capacity drives demonstrates our
commitment to offering only robust products,” said Crane. “These state-of-the-art, affordably-priced systems,
backed by top-notch, US-based customer service, also ensure optimal ROI. Our long-standing customer base, with
many clients returning for over a decade, speaks volumes about PAC quality and service.”



About PAC Storage

PAC Storage is an enterprise data storage hardware solution. Since 2005, PAC solutions have been the
cornerstone of data centers nationwide for primary, secondary, backup, and disaster recovery. In 2017, PAC
introduced its PS Line offering hybrid SAN and NAS, with cloud gateway options. Renowned for the best price point
in the industry, PAC's feature-rich solutions are robust with high availability, data protection and scalability to
petabytes of on-premise storage. PAC Storage is an affiliate of BOXX Technologies.

Learn more at www.pacstorage.com.



                                                                                                    #




   Attachments


    •   PAC Storage NVME 5000 (front)
    •   PAC Storage NVME 5000 (rear)
Krista Crane PAC Storage 949.360.9055     krista@pacstorage.com



Load-Date: July 16, 2024


  
