

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 3
                                    Key Cloud Computing Trends to Look Out For in 2023




                    Key Cloud Computing Trends to Look Out For in 2023
                                                        Apple World Today
                                            August 19, 2024 Monday 1:30 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Apple World Today Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved




Length: 1077 words

Body


Computing in the cloud has already transformed the way companies run their operations, but the cloud's
revolutionary effects are far from over. Firms continued to embrace the cloud to modernize operations and improve
IT capabilities in 2022, resulting in sustained adoption and growth.

This article outlines main cloud computing trends that will have a big influence on the industry throughout 2023.
Moreover, this information is important if you want to stay competitive in the cloud computing field, which is
changing quickly. Each of the trends below will have an effect beyond the current year.

Kubernetes and Docker for Cloud Deployment Management

Docker and Kubernetes both provide a platform for distributing software in standard units known as containers. If
Docker hub and Kubernetes are employed in the management process, they will be useful in managing large-scale
cloud deployments. Both systems offer the following advantages: high scalability, high efficiency, flexible resource
sharing, cloud deployment automation, fast and low-cost deployment alternatives, and quick deployment.

Clouds for Virtual and Augmented Reality

Even though augmented and virtual reality are still in their early stages of popularity, the number of individuals
interested in them has constantly increased over the past several years. As the need for these two services grows,
an increasing number of organizations are creating cloud-based software to accommodate that demand.

Virtual reality (VR) powered by the cloud often necessitates the use of goggles for the user to completely immerse
themselves in the world of the game or app they are playing. Since they "visually encircle" the wearer, the goggles
may transport them to a variety of settings. The gamer may feel as though they are manipulating the steering wheel
of a spacecraft when playing games. With these programs, the user may take a virtual tour of a museum or perform
surgery on a simulated patient.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
                               Key Cloud Computing Trends to Look Out For in 2023

Cloud-based augmented reality (AR), on the other hand, does not deliver an immersive experience. It instead
augments living reality with extra information that may be accessed by devices like smartphones, video displays,
holograms, or even smart eyewear. While you're working on a project, augmented reality is meant to provide you
with greater flexibility of movement while simultaneously showing information or graphics on or via a device.

Cloud Gaming

Playing video games online or in the cloud is getting increasingly popular. Players may play whatever game they
choose due to the cloud, which removes the need for them to spend money on expensive equipment and consoles.
As a result, games can be played without the need for additional storage capacity on personal devices to function
properly.

Serverless Computing

Serverless computing occurs when a cloud provider provides the whole computer infrastructure, including all
necessary software and services, to customers through web browsers installed on mobile devices such as
smartphones and tablets. The cloud service provider is in charge of maintaining the infrastructure and making sure
that computing resources are available when they are needed.

Serverless computing is gaining popularity among new organizations as a way to support a modern work
environment and the services that go with it without having to buy and maintain the hardware that is traditionally
required for in-house infrastructure. Serverless computing is growing increasingly popular since it allows employees
to work from anywhere.

Investing More in Cloud Security and Resilience

Going to the cloud unlocks immense potential, improves efficiency, and increases convenience, but it also exposes
companies and other organizations to a new set of cybersecurity threats. On top of that, there is a growing
mountain of regulations governing how businesses may store and use personal information. This implies that there
is a serious risk of businesses being punished or, worse, losing the trust of their customers.

As a result, spending money on cyber security and building resilience against several threats, ranging from the
impact of a pandemic on global commerce to data theft, will become an even greater priority throughout 2023. Yet,
given that many organizations are attempting to cut costs in anticipation of an oncoming economic downturn, it is
likely that the emphasis will be on finding inventive and cost-effective ways to maintain cyber security to get the
most "bang for the buck."

Cloud Services with Little or No Coding

Tools and platforms that allow anybody to create applications and use data to solve problems without needing to
write computer code are gaining popularity. This category of low-code and no-code solutions includes tools for
making websites, web applications, and nearly any kind of digital solution that a firm would want. Low-code and no-
code options for creating AI-powered applications are also becoming available, significantly lowering the barriers to
entry for enterprises seeking to use AI and ML. Many of these services are delivered through the cloud, which
means that consumers may access them without owning the complex computer equipment required to run them. As
such, users may now use them as a service. Users can now accomplish things that would previously have needed
coding skills, such as automating spreadsheet operations and constructing online apps.

Cloud Disaster Recovery

Cloud disaster recovery (CDR) is a cloud-based solution that, in the event of a disaster, immediately restores an
organization's critical systems and provides remote access to those systems while ensuring their security in a
virtual context. It also combines several backup services and methods to protect things like data, apps, and
settings.

                                                                                                         Page 3 of 3
                               Key Cloud Computing Trends to Look Out For in 2023

With the use of cloud backups, businesses may recover any lost data and resume operations as normal. When it
comes to operating a backup data center, traditional disaster recovery solutions may be time-consuming and
costly; however, CDR is quite affordable.

Conclusion

The transformation brought about by cloud computing will continue to make significant progress in 2023 and
beyond. Enterprise cloud migration is becoming increasingly prevalent as businesses and organizations seek
solutions to the issues they confront in their various sectors.

As such, cloud computing will likely continue to progress in the next few years, and it is feasible that it will play an
important role in the process of transforming the economy.


Load-Date: August 20, 2024


  
