

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 3
                Eindhoven University of Technology: Why Smart Robots Should Be as Lazy as Possible




 Eindhoven University of Technology: Why Smart Robots Should Be as Lazy
                               as Possible
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            July 11, 2024 Thursday 8:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1044 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: EINDHOVEN, The Netherlands

Body


(TNSres) -- Eindhoven University of Technology issued the following news:

***

Alongside Rene van de Molengraft, Professor of Lazy Robotics and founder of Tech United, we dive into the
technology behind the RoboCup.

***

The European Championship is still in full swing but, at TU Eindhoven, they are already hard at work on the next
'soccer tournament', the RoboCup 2024 from July 17-21 in Eindhoven. This is the world championship for robotics
and involves fully autonomous robots that play soccer matches, perform household tasks or locate difficult-to-reach
places as part of rescue work.

Thousands of people are expected to visit Eindhoven for RoboCup 2024, the world's largest competition in robotics
and AI. The best teams from around the world will compete for the world title in various robot competitions.

Alongside Rene van de Molengraft, Professor of Robotics and co-founder of the successful TU/e team (and current
robot soccer world champion) Tech United, we look ahead to the robot soccer tournament.

A conversation about the latest wonders we can see there, the challenges on the way to achieving the grand goal of
defeating human soccer players by 2050, and why soccer robots - and robots in general - perform even better when
they are lazy.

Tech United team

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 3
              Eindhoven University of Technology: Why Smart Robots Should Be as Lazy as Possible

The soccer robots of TU Eindhoven's team, Tech United, compete in the Middle Size League (MSL), the most
spectacular robot soccer. Their healthcare robot, HERO, takes part in the @Home league.

Soccer robots are attracting a lot of attention, especially in the MSL. Using a real soccer ball, they play five-on-five
matches in two 15-minute halves on an 18 x 12-meter field. They are programmed in advance but, once the whistle
blows, they play soccer completely autonomously and humans are simply spectators.

They look like a sort of moving traffic cone on three omni wheels. These wheels cannot steer but can passively roll
sideways. Thanks to these wheels, the robots are highly maneuverable and reliable.

The latest wonders

RoboCup primarily serves to stimulate the development of technology in mechatronics, computer science,
electronics and AI, among other fields, with competition as the drive. After each tournament, the knowledge and
progress are therefore shared with all participants. So, Tech United will have to come up with something new this
year to go for its eighth (!) world title.

"We're introducing two new elements this year," says Van de Molengraft. "The first improvement concerns the
wheels. This year, we have a player with three steerable wheels. This allows the robot to accelerate and brake
much faster. For now, it will be used as a substitute to see if the robot can handle an entire tournament."

"The other improvement is invisible as it relates to the software. We have completely recreated old code from the
very beginning and have adapted it to the rest of the code. This code improves the robots' movements and
therefore basically all soccer actions."

Defeating human soccer players

Every few years, the RoboCup organization, in which Van de Molengraft is closely involved, draws up new rules for
the various leagues. In doing so, they encourage innovations to get closer to the dot on the horizon: defeating a
human soccer team by 2050. What will the next challenge be on the way to 2050?

"I'm thinking of the switch from wheels to legs. We will have to do that because we really cannot compete against
humans using wheels yet. For that, we need to allow games with multi-legged robots in the MSL. That would be an
enormous new challenge for Tech United," he explains.

"Of course, you will then see a huge drop-off in match results," says Van de Molengraft. "But eventually, the robots
on legs are going to win out over those on wheels. I'm really looking forward to that!"

Practical challenges

In addition to the soccer leagues, the RoboCup has other categories in which to compete, such as autonomous
healthcare robots and rescue robots. For example, Tech United is participating in the @Home league with their
healthcare robot HERO.

Within this competition, the focus lies in the development of robots that can provide service and assistance in home
or care situations. In the future, the hope is that this will enable elderly people to live at home for longer, for
example. Here too, the team is mainly a spectator during the matches.

"You can see that highly practical challenges are at the center of the other leagues, such as picking up a cup of tea.
The care robot has to know how big the cup is and how full it is, but also what material such a cup is made of. A
plastic cup is easily crushed, resulting in hot tea everywhere. I see significant progress there, although the step to
practice is still sizeable."

"It's a different story for rescue robots. Robots are already being deployed in rescue work in which humans are
difficult to reach or where it is too dangerous. Examples include the disaster at Fukushima or the earthquakes in
Turkey and Syria."

                                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
               Eindhoven University of Technology: Why Smart Robots Should Be as Lazy as Possible

"It's really great to see rescue robots finding living people in incredibly difficult conditions, albeit usually still requiring
a human operator to remotely control the robot."

At the heart of the research

The TU/e team Tech United has been around for almost twenty years now. Van de Molengraft was involved in the
foundation of the RoboCup soccer team, taking inspiration from Philips' then-successful team. A little later, in 2009,
followed the start of research into autonomous robotics at TU/e with the RoboEarth project, which had European
funding.

"After that, we started carrying out more and more robotics projects and became a real research group. In 2019, as
principal investigator, I was able to start my own robotics group," he says.

"We began with five people and are now a real section with about fifty employees and a number of robotics courses
in the Mechanical Engineering bachelor's program. And, starting next academic year, we will also have our own
Robotics master's track."

All of that research directly benefits the Tech United team as, in addition to students, the team consists of PhD
candidates and staff.

***

Original text here: https://www.tue.nl/en/news-and-events/news-overview/10-07-2024-why-smart-robots-should-be-
as-lazy-as-possible

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8716605 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 11, 2024


  
