

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 3
   5 things to know for July 2: Hurricane Beryl, Presidential immunity, Social media, Ukraine coup attempt, Gaza




  5 things to know for July 2: Hurricane Beryl, Presidential immunity, Social
                     media, Ukraine coup attempt, Gaza
                                                         CNN Wire
                                             July 2, 2024 Tuesday 10:52 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved

Length: 1047 words
Byline: By Alexandra Banner, CNN
Dateline: (CNN)

Body


        (CNN) - China now has the first samples ever collected from the far side of the moon and says it will share
them with scientists around the world. But US access could be hampered by a 2011 law that prohibits space
coordination between NASA and China without special authorization.

Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day.

1. Hurricane Beryl

Hurricane Beryl is churning toward Jamaica as a dangerous Category 5 storm after leaving at least one person
dead and inflicting ruin across the Caribbean islands on Monday. The storm has already ripped through scores of
homes in Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, where many are still without power or water. Beryl
continues to smash records as it kicks off an exceptionally early hurricane season - now becoming the earliest
Category 5 hurricane on record and only the second Atlantic storm of such strength to be recorded in July.
Forecasts show harsh winds and rain will be felt in Hispaniola today with as much as 3 feet of storm surge.
Government officials have also activated national disaster response protocols in Jamaica, where water levels may
rise 5 feet above normal tide levels.

2. Presidential immunity

The Supreme Court ruled Monday that former President Donald Trump may claim immunity from criminal
prosecution for some of the actions he took before leaving office. President Joe Biden condemned the decision,
which ruled that presidents have absolute immunity from prosecution for core official acts, and issued a stern
warning over a possible second term for Trump. "There are no kings in America. Each, each of us is equal before
the law," Biden said in a speech from the White House. Biden warned the high court set a "dangerous precedent
because the power of the office will no longer be constrained by the law even including the Supreme Court of the
United States." The decision will likely delay Trump's federal election subversion trial related to his actions on
January 6 even further.

3. Social media

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
   5 things to know for July 2: Hurricane Beryl, Presidential immunity, Social media, Ukraine coup attempt, Gaza

The Supreme Court on Monday declined to settle major questions raised in a blockbuster dispute over laws
intended to protect conservative viewpoints on social media. The decision delays a final ruling on whether it is
unconstitutional for states to pass laws preventing online platforms from moderating their own websites. Republican
governors in Texas and Florida previously argued that laws are needed to keep sites such as Facebook and
Instagram from discriminating against conservatives. The justices' decision means the laws will remain blocked for
now while lower courts continue to sort out the constitutional questions involved.

4. Ukraine coup attempt

Ukraine has foiled an alleged plot to overthrow the government that "would have played into Russia's hands,"
security officials in the war-torn country said Monday. Ukrainian authorities arrested at least four suspected coup
organizers who allegedly planned to trigger a riot in Kyiv on June 30 as a distraction to seize control of the
Ukrainian parliament and remove the military and political leadership from power. It is unclear if those accused have
any connection with Russia, which has waged a devastating full-scale invasion against its southwestern neighbor
for nearly two and a half years. The suspects face up to 10 years in prison if found guilty.

5. Gaza

As the war in Gaza nears 10 months, Israel issued new evacuation orders today in the enclave, including for
eastern Khan Younis and Rafah. The latest orders have forced residents - many of whom were already displaced -
to seek shelter elsewhere in what signals the possibility of another ground operation. Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday said the country's military is nearing the "end of the stage of eliminating" Hamas'
army in Gaza. He again vowed that Israel would achieve its goals, including returning the hostages that were
abducted by Hamas militants on October 7. Israeli attacks in Gaza have since killed more than 37,700 Palestinians
and injured over 86,000 people, according to Gaza health officials.

BREAKFAST BROWSE

Trump Tower is coming to Saudi ArabiaThe Trump Organization revealed plans Monday to develop a luxury
Trump Tower in Saudi Arabia. Critics are raising concerns about potential conflicts of interest should the former
president return to the White House.

This electric car battery takes less than 5 minutes to chargeFaster charging times are a key demand among
many electric vehicle drivers. A British startup may have found the answer.

Bionic leg restores natural walking speeds and stepsA new study shows that neuro-controlled prosthetics, or
bionic limbs, could help some amputees walk and move like anyone else.

This artist won an AI photo competition. Except his picture was realCNN spoke with artist Miles Astray, who
won an AI photography contest with a real picture of a flamingo. The judges of the competition were not so happy.

Royal talent: Drawings by teenage Queen Victoria to go up for auctionA set of 19th-century drawings by a
teenage Queen Victoria will be put up for auction in London next week. See the sketches here.

TODAY'S NUMBER

30That's how many people were injured on an Air Europa flight from Madrid to Uruguay after strong turbulence
forced the Boeing plane to make an emergency landing. While there's no evidence so far that the injuries were
caused by a manufacturing problem, Boeing has recently faced a series of whistleblowers alleging safety issues at
the company.

TODAY'S QUOTE

"We will continue to fight."

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 3
   5 things to know for July 2: Hurricane Beryl, Presidential immunity, Social media, Ukraine coup attempt, Gaza

- First lady Jill Biden, appearing as Vogue's new cover star just days after President Biden's shaky first debate
performance rattled the Democratic party. She told the magazine that they "will not let those 90 minutes define the
four years he's been president."

TODAY'S WEATHER

Check your local forecast here&gt;&gt;&gt;

AND FINALLY ...

Baking dessert on the grillWith the Fourth of July right around the corner, you may be searching for the perfect
party recipe. Look no further - Chef Tyler Florence shows us how to bake desserts on the grill with a strawberry
upside-down cake that will impress everyone at your next cookout.

        By Alexandra Banner, CNN

TM & © 2024 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Load-Date: July 31, 2024


  
