

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 2
                         Nasuni Strengthens European Footprint with French Market Expansion




     Nasuni Strengthens European Footprint with French Market Expansion
                                                           PR Newswire
                                             June 25, 2024 Tuesday 3:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 880 words
Dateline: BOSTON and PARIS, June 25, 2024

Body


PR NewswireCritical Need for Acceleration in Cloud Adoption, AI Readiness, and Cyber Resiliency Fuels Demand
for Nasuni's Hybrid Cloud Data PlatformBOSTON and PARIS, June 25, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Nasuni, a leading
enterprise data platform for hybrid cloud environments, announced today its further investment and expansion into
the French market, strengthening its European presence. Nasuni's state-of-the-art data platform built for hybrid
cloud supports enterprises facing growing unstructured data volumes with effortless scalability, built-in security, fast
edge performance, and AI-ready data.

 Organizations across France are embracing the AI revolution, a market which is set togrow by over 28%from 2024
to 2030. This is unearthing a critical need for enterprises to unlock unstructured data repositories and curate AI-
ready data. In parallel, the evolving cybersecurity threat landscape in France (the fifth most attacked country by
ransomware) is putting enterprise data at risk.Operating in France since 2017, Nasuni is experiencing strong
demand from organizations across France and Europe for its ground-breaking data platform. Organizations rely on
Nasuni to turn unstructured data into rich repositories in order to drive AI implementations across their businesses
while strengthening cyber resilience and cutting infrastructure costs. Nasuni's client roster already includes 9 of
France'stop 50 market capcompanies. Customers includePernod Ricard,TBWA,Colas,Safran, andFrance
Habitation."We're seeing a rapid rise of forward-thinking French businesses undergoing cloud transformations to
accelerate AI implementations and secure data in the face of evolving ransomware threats," says Chris Addis, Vice
President of Sales, EMEA at Nasuni. "Our expansion in the French market across sales, technical sales, and
partnerships reflects the growing demands we're seeing for the Nasuni File Data Platform in supporting enterprises
with these challenges and driving growth. We are excited to have now achieved critical mass in France, and this
rapid growth alongside the growth of our partner network marks an exciting time for Nasuni as we continue to
expand operations in Europe."Nasuni's key partnerships in France includearcITek, an innovative French IT services
provider. Together, Nasuni and arcITek support French businesses by accelerating cloud transformations,
delivering robust cyber resiliency, and enabling successful AI implementations. Nasuni also works closely with
hyperscalers Microsoft, Amazon Web Services (AWS), and Google Cloud, and supports enterprise customers
across a host of different sectors in France, with a focus on automotive, manufacturing, consumer goods,
engineering, and energy."It's an exciting time as enterprises are rapidly adopting AI to drive efficiencies and
innovation, and accelerating cloud transformations to enable this," says Taniel Doniguian, president at arcITek. "It's
great to see French businesses adopting modern data platforms to drive their business growth, and we're delighted
to work with Nasuni to provide this critical solution. We support enterprises in implementing these technologies and
Nasuni has been a key partner of ours for a number of years, helping us to provide firms with the efficient and

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
                      Nasuni Strengthens European Footprint with French Market Expansion

secure ability to access and manage their unstructured file data while readying for the adoption of GenAI."Nasuni's
expansion in the French market follows another year of strong momentum for the company, which added more
than120+ new large enterprise customersacross all verticals in 2023. Nasuni recently announced themajor
repositioning of its entire brand identity, underpinned by this overall business growth and Nasuni's continuous
product innovation including the launches earlier this year ofNasuni Edge for Amazon S3 to deliver high
performance at the edgeandNasuni IQ to help enterprises unlock data silos for AI services.To learn more about
Nasuni's expansion in France, clickhere. If you want to join Nasuni's customer meetup in France this October,
register and keep up-to-datehere.About Nasuni

Nasuni is a scalable data platform for enterprises facing an explosion of unstructured data in an AI world.The
Nasuni File Data Platform delivers effortless scale in hybrid cloud environments, enables control at the network
edge, and meets the modern enterprise expectation for insight- and AI-ready data. It simplifies file data
management while increasing storage access and performance. Its best-in-class file recovery protects customers
against a range of cyber threats and eliminates the need for specialized backup and disaster recovery – all while
cutting the cost of infrastructure by up to 65%.Organizations worldwide rely on Nasuni, spanning across the
manufacturing, construction, energy, consumer goods, and public sectors. Nasuni's corporate headquarters is
located in Boston, Massachusetts, and the company delivers services to over 70 countries. For more information,
visitwww.nasuni.com.Media ContactFrance: Remi Poncelet
Waters Agency
Email: UK/Europe: Maria Loupa
Waters Agency
Phone: +44 (0)7591 004 738
Email:     View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nasuni-
strengthens-european-footprint-with-french-market-expansion-302177167.htmlSOURCE Nasuni


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
