

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
    Event 38 Unmanned Systems Teams Up with AviSight in Selecting Elsight's BVLOS Connectivity Solution to
                         Achieve Precise Data Collection in its Oil & Gas Pipeline....




 Event 38 Unmanned Systems Teams Up with AviSight in Selecting Elsight's
 BVLOS Connectivity Solution to Achieve Precise Data Collection in its Oil &
              Gas Pipeline Inspections over Difficult Terrain
                                                           PR Newswire
                                            June 13, 2024 Thursday 3:41 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1023 words
Dateline: OR YEHUDA, Israel, June 13, 2024

Body


PR NewswireOR YEHUDA, Israel, June 13, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Leading manufacturer of unmanned aerial
vehicles Event 38 and AviSight, a provider of critical infrastructure inspections, announced the use of Elsight's
(ASX: ELS) Halo, an AI-based UAV connectivity solution, to enable beyond the visual-line-of-sight (BVLOS)
inspections with precise data collection in extensive oil & gas pipeline inspections over difficult terrain.At the heart of
this collaboration is Elsight's Halo, a lightweight, highly reliable communications system. Halo's AI-based software
aggregates multiple IP links to a secure bond using public and private cellular, satellite, and RF technologies
ensuring uninterrupted drone communications even in the most challenging environments. Whether it's disaster
response, surveillance, deliveries or lengthy remote inspections, UAV (uncrewed aerial vehicle) flights powered by
the Elsight Halo complete the mission with continuous transmission of high-bandwidth video and data to the
command-and-control center (C2).When facing the operational and economic challenges of data collection from
major pipelines, AviSight's CEO, Suzanne Herring, was quite rigorous in her selection of the optimal VTOL drone
and the BVLOS connectivity solution for these missions and required connectivity with the highest bandwidth,
lowest latency, highest redundancy, and of course, the most reliable link."AviSight's reputation is dependent on our
ability to provide accurate, timely and consistently critical infrastructure inspections through the use of unmanned
ariel systems in a cost-effective manner.

In a technology market that is rapidly developing, it is essential to remain innovative in our systems methodology
while also embodying the challenges of an efficient execution of the mission. With C2 linkage being a primary
priority for our BVLOS missions, it was essential to find a partner with the capabilities to maintain communications
throughout our volatile terrains. Elsight has provided us with the ability to maintain C2 through vast wetlands,
mountainous regions, and remote areas. While Event 38's E455 has given us the ability to fly extensive linear
inspections efficiently and more cost effectively," said CEO of AviSight, Suzanne Herring."We sought the right
combination to maintain command and control over more than 2,000 miles of pipeline inspections in a variety of
terrains. Event 38 and Elsight enabled us to overcome terrain and distance challenges and provide precise data to
our customers ensuring their regulatory compliance," added Herring.Event 38 Unmanned Systems latest VTOL, the
E455 is a premier fixed wing, vertical takeoff and landing (VTOL) drone. At 55lbs, the E455 offers a 2.5-hour flight
endurance on battery power alone. The E455 is designed to carry a diverse range of payloads, including mapping

                                                                                              Page 2 of 2
   Event 38 Unmanned Systems Teams Up with AviSight in Selecting Elsight's BVLOS Connectivity Solution to
                        Achieve Precise Data Collection in its Oil & Gas Pipeline....

sensors, LiDAR, and EO/IR surveillance sensors, meeting the strict demands of various applications such as
lengthy pipeline inspections."The high bandwidth and low power usage of the Elsight Halo paired with the E455
open endless possibilities of inspections over long distances and rugged terrain that were not possible previously,"
said Jeff Taylor, CEO of Event 38 Unmanned Systems. "Our E455 VTOL was able to get closer to the pipelines
with the help of Elsight.""Working with Event 38 and AviSight has been very fulfilling from both technological and
business perspectives. Our Halo was designed for mission-critical goals, particularly, in difficult situations," said
Yoav Amitai, CEO of Elsight. "Elsight optimizes the use of drones in many industries with reliable BVLOS
connectivity for operational effectiveness. At the same time, we enable industry growth by using only one operator
to control a drone fleet from remote locations anywhere. This is how we see our Halo as a market catalyst for
drones in pipelines, and inspections in many industries, in which removing the human element delivers better and
safer results."About AviSightAviSight provides industrial inspections of critical infrastructure and advanced data
solutions for regulatory compliance, asset management, and predictive maintenance. We work with fortune one
hundred partners in all verticals of critical infrastructure including Power, Gas, Oil, Telecom, and Transportation.
Our mission is to create a generational paradigm shift in data collection and actionability that increases safety
exponentially while achieving significant cost savings for our clients. We have been working with our partners and
customers on legislative activity and regulatory expansion to ensure the ability to create BVLOS programs that will
help take inspections into the 21st century.www.avisight.comAbout Event 38 Unmanned SystemsEstablished in
2011 and with customers all over the world, Event 38 Unmanned Systems is a leading provider of Unmanned
Aircraft Systems (UAS). Our customers use their drones in diverse fields including Security, Surveying, and
Environmental Conservation. Our hybrid fixed wing VTOL aircraft offer an extended endurance capability for
covering dozens of miles or hundreds of acres. With a variety of payload options and customizable solutions
available, our aircraft collect thermal, multispectral and high-resolution imagery and with centimeter-level
geotagging accuracy.www.event38.comAbout ElsightElsight (ASX: ELS) Elsight delivers Connection Confidence
with proprietary bonding connectivity that incorporates both software and hardware elements to deliver reliable,
secure, high bandwidth communications - even in the most challenging areas for stationary, portable, or actively
mobile situational requirements. Elsight provides robust, secured connectivity to unmanned aerial and ground
systems manufacturers, operators, and integrators globally.www.elsight.comContact:
Susan Becker
Marketing Director
Elsight
 View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/event-38-unmanned-systems-teams-up-with-
avisight-in-selecting-elsights-bvlos-connectivity-solution-to-achieve-precise-data-collection-in-its-oil--gas-pipeline-
inspections-over-difficult-terrain-302171791.htmlSOURCE Elsight Ltd


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
