

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
    LevelBlue Report Finds Healthcare Leaders View Cybersecurity as an Afterthought, But Dynamic Computing
                        Advancements Spark Change LevelBlue finds 73% of healthca....




    LevelBlue Report Finds Healthcare Leaders View Cybersecurity as an
    Afterthought, But Dynamic Computing Advancements Spark Change;
      LevelBlue finds 73% of healthcare executives believe computing
 innovation's benefits outweigh its cybersecurity risks, while more than half
                   still remain cautious about AI adoption
                                                   Business Wire
                                      July 11, 2024 Thursday 12:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 931 words
Dateline: DALLAS

Body


LevelBlue , a leading provider of managed security services, strategic consulting, and threat intelligence, today
released its 2024 Futures Report: Cyber Resilience in Healthcare . The findings reveal how opportunities for
technology innovation and the rapid evolution of computing have thrust healthcare organizations into a perpetual
struggle between innovation and risk.

The latest LevelBlue report found that 87% of healthcare executives anticipate that dynamic computing will enhance
operational performance within the next three years, yet 83% acknowledge an increased exposure to risk. Another
69% of respondents say their healthcare organizations do not specifically invest in cyber resilience beyond
cybersecurity, inferring leadership underestimates the harm a major cyber incident, natural disaster, or other man-
made event could pose.

However, there are signs of change as 77% of healthcare leaders expect earlier involvement of cybersecurity in
computing projects, indicating a shift towards proactive measures. An additional 54% acknowledge they are a
cautious or late adopter of artificial intelligence (AI). This trend, coupled with the cautious adoption of AI and a
slightly lower concern for risk, suggests a moderate level of preparedness.

"Computing advanced so rapidly that many healthcare leaders now lack crucial visibility into their IT estate," said
Theresa Lanowitz, Chief Evangelist of AT&T Cybersecurity / LevelBlue. "To overcome this challenge, healthcare
organizations now have a big task ahead. They need to remain agile, flexible, innovative, cost-effective, and quality-
conscious while also meeting external demands of data protection and patient safety. This report identifies key
opportunities to overcome the obstacles in achieving both cyber resilience and innovation to thrive among today's
dynamic computing environment."

Today's healthcare organizations operate in a climate where a whole hospital system can be taken offline in only a
few hours, compromising patient data protection and critical healthcare services. Broadscale cyber resilience is

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
   LevelBlue Report Finds Healthcare Leaders View Cybersecurity as an Afterthought, But Dynamic Computing
                       Advancements Spark Change LevelBlue finds 73% of healthca....

required to effectively recover from network, system, and data interruptions that underpin healthcare delivery. This
can include recovery from large-scale distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, business email compromise,
and ransomware.

When asked about cybersecurity planning and budgeting within healthcare organizations, the study found:

- Only 38% say cybersecurity is typically included in computing planning with 51% reporting it is included in
corporate strategy discussions.
- 73% indicate cybersecurity budgets are reactive rather than proactive, while 42% identify compliance as the driver
most likely to unlock the cybersecurity budget.
- 37% are most likely to seek cybersecurity expertise for strategy and planning, but 69% are struggling to find the
external guidance they need.
- 76% say that measuring cybersecurity investments based on return on investment (ROI) is outdated while 59%
reveal there's a lack of understanding about cybersecurity at the board level.
- 62% believe cybersecurity is an afterthought in their organizations and 60% confirm efforts are often siloed,
hindering comprehensive protection.
- Just 46% of their organizations have a cybersecurity budget line item for every project, while 45% do not have
standardized cybersecurity processes - risking patient data and operational integrity.

Based on these findings, LevelBlue recommends five specific steps to achieve cyber resilience, regardless of the
industry: identify the barriers to cyber resilience; be secure by design; align cyber investment with business; build a
support ecosystem; and transform cybersecurity strategies.

Download the complete findings of the 2024 LevelBlue Futures Report: Cyber Resilience in Healthcare at this link
here to learn why balancing innovation and cyber risk are paramount in today's rapidly evolving healthcare
environment. This report follows the May 2024 release of the core 2024 LevelBlue Futures Report found here

For more information on LevelBlue and its managed security, consulting, and threat intelligence services, please
visit www.levelblue.com

Methodology

The research is based on a quantitative survey that was carried out by FT Longitude in March 2024. There were a
total of 1,050 C-suite and senior executives surveyed, across 18 countries and seven industries: energy and
utilities, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, retail, transportation, and US SLED (state, local government,
and higher education). Respondents were employed in a variety of cybersecurity-related roles, with 32% working at
C-level and the remainder employed in C-minus one positions. The total number surveyed in healthcare is 180.

About LevelBlue

We simplify cybersecurity through award-winning managed services, experienced strategic consulting, threat
intelligence and renowned research. Our team is a seamless extension of yours, providing transparency and
visibility into security posture and continuously working to strengthen it.

We harness security data from numerous sources and enrich it with artificial intelligence to deliver real-time threat
intelligence, which enables more accurate and precise decision making. With a large, always-on global presence,
LevelBlue sets the standard for cybersecurity today and tomorrow. We easily and effectively manage risk, so you
can focus on your business

Welcome to LevelBlue. Cybersecurity. Simplified. Learn more at www.levelblue.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240711975035/en/

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
   LevelBlue Report Finds Healthcare Leaders View Cybersecurity as an Afterthought, But Dynamic Computing
                       Advancements Spark Change LevelBlue finds 73% of healthca....

CONTACT: Media
Jessica Bettencourt
Inkhouse for LevelBlue

LevelBlue@inkhouse.com
(774) 451-5142


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 23, 2024


  
