

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 3
                            TeraWulf Announces July 2024 Production and Operations Update




         TeraWulf Announces July 2024 Production and Operations Update
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              August 5, 2024 Monday 5:45 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS
Length: 1727 words

Body

Advancements of AI/HPC digital infrastructure projects at Lake Mariner

10 EH/s of installed and operational self-mining capacity, up 100.0% Y-o-Y

Completion of Building 4 at Lake Mariner in July

EASTON, Md., Aug. 05, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- TeraWulf Inc. (Nasdaq: WULF) (“TeraWulf” or the
“Company”), owners and operators of vertically integrated, domestic bitcoin mining facilities powered by 95% zero-
carbon energy, today provided an unaudited monthly production and operations update for July 2024.

July 2024 Production and Operations Highlights
    •     Self-Mined Bitcoin: Mined 195 bitcoin in July with an average production rate of approximately 6.3 bitcoin
          per day.
    •     Operating Capacity: TeraWulf's installed and operational self-mining capacity reached approximately 10
          EH/s, representing a 100.0% year-over-year increase.
    •     Power Cost: Averaged $36,346 per bitcoin self-mined in July, reflecting an approximate rate of $0.047/kWh
          and excluding the benefit of expected demand response or ancillary services proceeds, which are
          expected to be substantial, as described below.
    •     Demand Response: The Lake Mariner facility curtailed over 3,400 MWh in connection with demand
          response activities in July, which is expected to reduce power costs by approximately $0.013/kWh in the
          month. TeraWulf’s demand response savings represent the equivalent value of approximately 31 BTC
          using July’s “Value per Bitcoin Self-Mined” in the table below.
                                                   Key Metrics1   July 2024      June 2024
         Bitcoin Self-Mined Lake Mariner               155             136

                                                                                                           Page 2 of 3
                         TeraWulf Announces July 2024 Production and Operations Update

        Bitcoin Self-Mined Nautilus              40               41
        Value per Bitcoin Self-Mined2        $                    62,887        $                 66,178
        Power Cost per Bitcoin Self-Mined    $                    36,346        $                 32,373
        Avg. Operating Hash Rate (EH/s)3         8.0              7.1
        Nameplate Miner Efficiency (J/TH)4       24.6             24.6

Management Commentary

“During July, the Company mined 195 bitcoin, equivalent to approximately 6.3 bitcoin per day, an improvement over
June’s production due to operational optimization during peak summer temperatures coupled with demand
response for grid support,” said Sean Farrell, SVP of Operations at TeraWulf.

“The Lake Mariner team has installed a total of approximately 10,000 Bitmain S21 and S21 Pro miners in Building 4
, boosting the Company’s total operating capacity to over 10.0 EH/s with 245 MW of infrastructure operating
capacity across its two sites. We expect to utilize this capacity fully during periods of lower energy prices and
moderate temperatures,” continued Farrell. “For the second half of 2024, construction has started on Building 5 at
Lake Mariner, which is expected to add another 50 MW of infrastructure capacity. Additionally, we are advancing
our AI/HPC projects, including the upcoming 2 MW 'WULF Den' proof-of-concept project and the 16 MW ‘CB-1’
colocation building, which are set to demonstrate our high-density computing capabilities5.”

Production and Operations Update

As of July 31, 2024, TeraWulf's operational infrastructure capacity comprised 195 MW at the Lake Mariner facility
and 50 MW at the Nautilus facility, with the Company's total self-mining hash rate at approximately 10.0 EH/s. In
July, TeraWulf's miners operated at an average of 8.0 EH/s due to frequent demand response events and
performance tuning aimed at maximizing profit every hour of the day.

Regarding WULF Compute’s pursuit of a large-scale, AI/HPC project at the Lake Mariner facility, progress
continues on the previously announced construction of a 2 MW AI/HPC digital infrastructure proof-of-concept
building, supporting current and next-generation GPU technology. TeraWulf is also designing a 20 MW colocation
pilot project (“CB-1”) at the Lake Mariner facility capable of supporting 16 MW of critical IT load with liquid cooling
and redundancy requirements typical of a Tier 3 data center, with a target operational date in Q4 2024.

About TeraWulf

TeraWulf owns and operates vertically integrated, environmentally clean bitcoin mining facilities in the United
States. Led by an experienced group of energy entrepreneurs, the Company currently has two bitcoin mining
facilities: the wholly owned Lake Mariner facility in New York, and Nautilus Cryptomine facility in Pennsylvania, a
joint venture with Cumulus Coin, LLC. TeraWulf generates domestically produced bitcoin powered by approximately
95% zero carbon energy resources including nuclear, hydro, and solar with a goal of utilizing 100% zero-carbon
energy. With a core focus on ESG that ties directly to its business success, TeraWulf expects to provide industry
leading mining economics at an industrial scale.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include statements
concerning anticipated future events and expectations that are not historical facts. All statements, other than
statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-
looking statements are typically identified by words such as “plan,” “believe,” “goal,” “target,” “aim,” “expect,”
“anticipate,” “intend,” “outlook,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “continue,” “could,” “may,” “might,” “possible,”
“potential,” “predict,” “should,” “would” and other similar words and expressions, although the absence of these
words or expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are based
on the current expectations and beliefs of TeraWulf’s management and are inherently subject to a number of
factors, risks, uncertainties and assumptions and their potential effects. There can be no assurance that future

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 3
                         TeraWulf Announces July 2024 Production and Operations Update

developments will be those that have been anticipated. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or
implied by forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, risks, uncertainties and assumptions,
including, among others: (1) conditions in the cryptocurrency mining industry, including fluctuation in the market
pricing of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, and the economics of cryptocurrency mining, including as to variables
or factors affecting the cost, efficiency and profitability of cryptocurrency mining; (2) competition among the various
providers of cryptocurrency mining services; (3) changes in applicable laws, regulations and/or permits affecting
TeraWulf’s operations or the industries in which it operates, including regulation regarding power generation,
cryptocurrency usage and/or cryptocurrency mining, and/or regulation regarding safety, health, environmental and
other matters, which could require significant expenditures; (4) the ability to implement certain business objectives
and to timely and cost-effectively execute integrated projects; (5) failure to obtain adequate financing on a timely
basis and/or on acceptable terms with regard to growth strategies or operations; (6) loss of public confidence in
bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies and the potential for cryptocurrency market manipulation; (7) adverse geopolitical
or economic conditions, including a high inflationary environment; (8) the potential of cybercrime, money-
laundering, malware infections and phishing and/or loss and interference as a result of equipment malfunction or
break-down, physical disaster, data security breach, computer malfunction or sabotage (and the costs associated
with any of the foregoing); (9) the availability, delivery schedule and cost of equipment necessary to maintain and
grow the business and operations of TeraWulf, including mining equipment and infrastructure equipment meeting
the technical or other specifications required to achieve its growth strategy; (10) employment workforce factors,
including the loss of key employees; (11) litigation relating to TeraWulf and/or its business; and (12) other risks and
uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”). Potential investors, stockholders and other readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they were made. TeraWulf does not assume
any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement after it was made, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or regulation. Investors are referred to the full
discussion of risks and uncertainties associated with forward-looking statements and the discussion of risk factors
contained in the Company’s filings with the SEC, which are available at www.sec.gov.

Company Contact:Jason AssadDirector of Corporate Communications assad@terawulf.com (678) 570-6791



_______________________________________1 The Company’s share of the earnings or losses from operations
at the Nautilus Cryptomine facility is reflected within “Equity in net income (loss) of investee, net of tax” in the
consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, operating results of the Nautilus Cryptomine facility are not
reflected in revenue, cost of revenue or cost of operations lines in TeraWulf’s consolidated statements of
operations. The Company uses these metrics as indicators of operational progress and effectiveness and believes
they are useful to investors for the same purposes and to provide comparisons to peer companies. All figures
except Bitcoin Self-Mined are estimates and remain subject to standard month-end adjustments.2 Computed as the
weighted-average opening price of bitcoin on each respective day the Bitcoin Self-Mined is earned.3 While
nameplate inventory as of July 31, 2024 for WULF’s two facilities is estimated at 10.0 EH/s, actual monthly hash
rate performance depends on a variety of factors, including (but not limited to) performance tuning to increase
efficiency and maximize margin, scheduled outages (scopes to improve reliability or performance), unscheduled
outages, curtailment due to participation in various cash generating demand response programs, derate of ASICS
due to adverse weather and ASIC maintenance and repair.4 Nameplate miner efficiency excludes auxiliary load.5
The 2 MW AI/HPC digital infrastructure within the WULF Den proof-of-concept project and the 16 MW AI/HPC
building at the Lake Mariner facility are IT Load (compute)


Load-Date: August 5, 2024


  
