

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 2
   35th International Symposium on Human Identification (ISHI) Highlights Intersection of True Crime Media and
                                               DNA Forensics




    35th International Symposium on Human Identification (ISHI) Highlights
              Intersection of True Crime Media and DNA Forensics
                                                   Business Wire
                                      July 31, 2024 Wednesday 11:01 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 505 words
Dateline: MADISON, Wis.

Body


The International Symposium on Human Identification (ISHI) will celebrate its 35th anniversary September 23-26 in
San Antonio. The annual meeting on DNA forensics welcomes more than 900 forensic DNA experts and law
enforcement professionals from around the world. Promega Corporation, a developer and manufacturer of products
for DNA-based human identification, has sponsored ISHI since its inception.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.             View        the      full     release      here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240725015627/en/

The 2024 ISHI Keynote session will spotlight the intersection of true crime media and DNA forensics. A panel of
speakers will share insights and experiences that underscore the role of DNA in connecting the past with the
present and shaping the future.

Speakers include:
    •     Patty Wetterling - Advocate of children's safety and chair of the National Center for Missing and Exploited
          Children
    •     Joy Baker - Co-author of Dear Jacob: A Mother's Journey of Hope and blogger
    •     Professor Turi King - Scientist, presenter, speaker and author who is passionate about communicating
          science to the public
    •     Dr. Anna Barbaro - President of the Worldwide Association of Women Forensic Experts
    •     Ashley Flowers - Founder of AudioChuck, podcaster, author and advocate

WHAT: ISHI is the largest annual meeting focusing entirely on DNA forensics. Promega Corporation launched the
symposium 35 years ago and continues to be a sponsor. Topics covered at ISHI 35 will include forensic
investigative genetic genealogy, artificial intelligence, disaster victim identification and the challenge of DNA
chimerism in forensic analysis.

WHEN: September 23-26, 2024

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
   35th International Symposium on Human Identification (ISHI) Highlights Intersection of True Crime Media and
                                               DNA Forensics

WHERE: JW Marriott San Antonio Hill Country Resort & Spa, San Antonio, TX

WHO: ISHI attracts forensic experts representing 40+ countries and a variety of professions including criminalists,
research scientists, lab directors, CODIS analysts and forensic scientists to discuss the latest advances in forensic
DNA analysis. Media are invited to attend and must pre-register.

WEB: Visit www.ishinews.com for agenda, registration and updates.

About Promega Corporation

This symposium for forensic experts and suppliers is offered through Promega Corporation, a leader in providing
innovative solutions and technical support to the life sciences industry. The company's portfolio of over 4,000
products supports a range of life science work across areas such as cell biology; DNA, RNA and protein analysis;
drug development; human identification and molecular diagnostics. These tools and technologies have grown in
their application over the last 45 years and are used today by scientists and technicians in labs for academic and
government research, forensics, pharmaceuticals, clinical diagnostics and veterinary, agricultural and
environmental testing. Promega is headquartered in Madison, WI, USA with branches in 16 countries and over 50
global distributors. Learn more at www.promega.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240725015627/en/


CONTACT: Penny Patterson
VP, Corporate Affairs
Promega Corporation
Phone: (608) 274-4330

E-mail: penny.patterson@promega.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 31, 2024


  
