

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
               DANFORD HIRED AS NDUS VICE CHANCELLOR OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY




        DANFORD HIRED AS NDUS VICE CHANCELLOR OF INFORMATION
                            TECHNOLOGY
                                               States News Service
                                               July 8, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 499 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BISMARCK, ND

Body


The following information was released by the North Dakota University System Office:

by Billie Jo Lorius

BISMARCK, N.D. North Dakota University System (NDUS) has hired Thomas Danford for the position of Vice
Chancellor of Information Technology and Chief Information Officer at Core Technology Services (CTS) beginning
July 22, 2024. Danford will succeed Darin King, who retired after 33 years of service to North Dakota.

Danford has more than 25 years of experience in higher education. He served as the chief information officer for the
Tennessee Board of Regents for 12 years, where he was responsible for the system technologies that supported 6
universities, 13 community colleges, and 26 schools of technology. He has also held leadership roles in academic,
administrative, infrastructure, and research technologies at institutions ranging from community colleges to research
institutions.

Most recently, Danford has been employed as a senior principal strategic specialist and chief information officer for
a private company where he served higher education institutions in improving the alignment of institutional IT assets
to aid student success, business processes, compliance and data protection and privacy.

"We welcome him to the system and look forward to his leadership and extensive experience in both higher
education and the various aspects of information technology, especially as we face unprecedented technological
advancements and evolution of artificial intelligence. We appreciate the knowledge and experience he brings to
the position," said NDUS Chancellor Mark Hagerott.

Some systemwide projects Danford led include Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) implementation, management,
and support; Oracle Database Administrator management; Learning Management System management; and IT
security collaborative for cybersecurity and disaster preparedness.

"I am thrilled to join the North Dakota University System and eager to leverage my experience within the Core
Technology Services team. I am excited about the outstanding opportunities in North Dakota, not only from an IT

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
              DANFORD HIRED AS NDUS VICE CHANCELLOR OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

perspective but also in fostering a collaborative environment that supports the needs of the university system and
benefits the entire state," Danford said.

Danford holds a master's in business administration, a juris doctor, and a bachelor's degree in chemistry along with
extensive continuing education in a variety of IT/management information systems and business management
topics.

Prior to his tenure at the Tennessee Board of Regents, Danford served as the associate provost for information
technology at the University of Dayton; assistant vice president for IT at Georgia Perimeter College; and, director of
computer services at Rollins College. He and his wife Debbie will be relocating to North Dakota from Tennessee.

The North Dakota University System includes 11 unique campuses: two world-class research institutions, four
outstanding regional universities and five vibrant community colleges.


Load-Date: July 9, 2024


  
