

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 2
                                    UM SKL-IOTSC Holds Academic Committee Meeting




                     UM SKL-IOTSC Holds Academic Committee Meeting
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            August 25, 2024 Sunday 8:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 916 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: MACAU, China

Body


The University of Macau issued the following news release:

The State Key Laboratory of Internet of Things for Smart City (SKL-IOTSC) of the University of Macau (UM) held
the first meeting of its second academic committee. Experts and scholars attended the meeting to discuss the
development and future direction of the laboratory.

The meeting was attended by Ip Kuai Lam, member of the Administrative Committee of the Science and
Technology Development Fund (FDCT) of Macao; Mei Hong, member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and
president of the academic committee; Cheng Shijie, Jin Hongguang, and Li Hui, members of the Chinese Academy
of Sciences; Fan Weicheng, Zhang Ping, and Li Keqiang, members of the Chinese Academy of Engineering; Lionel
Ni, founding president of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou); Jin Shi, vice president
of Southeast University; and Qiao Yu, professor at Shanghai Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.

The meeting was chaired by Mei, with speeches delivered by Ip and Yonghua Song, rector of UM and director of
SKL-IOTSC. Song expressed his gratitude to the participating experts for their support, guidance, and
encouragement to the university and the laboratory. He added that SKL-IOTSC will continue to adhere to its original
aspiration, uphold the scientific spirit, and contribute to the smart and sustainable development of cities through
advancements in science and technology.

Ip said that since its establishment, SKL-IOTSC has consistently made significant breakthroughs, and many of its
research results have received national and international awards, such as the Guanghua Engineering Science and
Technology Prize, National Innovation Excellence Award, State Scientific and Technological Progress Award,
Macao Science and Technology Award, and Junior Research Prize from the European Association for Structural
Dynamics. The laboratory is dedicated to smart city development and technological innovation, continuously making
major breakthroughs. It has built an international-level simulation and decision-making platform for intelligent
management and decision-making in smart cities. The platform focuses on key application areas such as smart
energy, smart transportation, urban safety and disaster prevention, and has made important contributions to
Macao's sustainable development. SKL-IOTSC is also committed to promoting industry-academia integration, and

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
                               UM SKL-IOTSC Holds Academic Committee Meeting

has signed an innovation cooperation agreement with China Southern Power Grid to jointly develop key digital grid
technologies and promote their application in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. In addition,
through theoretical and technological innovations in urban disaster prevention, advanced sensors have been
developed and successfully applied in structural health monitoring in major projects such as the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-
Macao Bridge, and the Second Hengqin Bridge of the Guangdong-Macao In-depth Cooperation Zone in Hengqin.
The laboratory also actively explores innovative methods in energy management and urban governance to help
improve Macao's disaster resilience and energy management.

Ip expressed hope that SKL-IOTSC will continue to uphold the spirit of original research, drive breakthroughs in
scientific research, address core technical challenges in the Internet of Things and smart cities, and achieve deep
integration of technological innovation and industrial development. The laboratory is also expected to strengthen
cooperation with experts in various fields, actively expand international exchanges, and attract outstanding
researchers with international perspectives, so as to further enhance Macao's influence and competitiveness in
scientific research. Additionally, he hoped that the laboratory will actively participate in industry-academia
collaboration to promote the transformation of science and technology research results and provide robust support
for Macao's sustainable development.

Ma Shaodan, associate director of SKL-IOTSC, gave a comprehensive report on the laboratory's developments and
research achievements in 2024, and detailed its development plan and focus. The committee members gave full
recognition and spoke highly of the laboratory's accomplishments in technological innovation, talent cultivation,
industry-academia collaboration, and open projects. They suggested that the laboratory should commit itself to
advancing major research projects, deepening basic theoretical and technical research, and promoting the
transformation of science and technology research results, thus leveraging Macao's advantages and actively
participating in major national science and technology projects.

At the end of the meeting, Song thanked the committee members for their suggestions. He said that with the
guidance and assistance of the academic committee, SKL-IOTSC will use outstanding talent as its cornerstone to
reach new heights in scientific research, and make substantial contributions to the development strategies of Macao
and the country. The meeting was also attended by eight key researchers from the laboratory. Through in-depth
discussions and exchanges, they provided important guidance and insights for the development and technological
innovation of the Internet of Things for smart cities.

***

Original text here: https://www.um.edu.mo/news-and-press-releases/press-release/detail/58893/

Contact: Jason Leong, 853/8822 8322, prs.media@um.edu.mo

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8788346 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: August 25, 2024


  
