

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
  Intermap Expands Offering Due to Demand The Company intends to close the third and final tranche this week




 Intermap Expands Offering Due to Demand; The Company intends to close
                  the third and final tranche this week
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                            August 7, 2024 Wednesday 2:30 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CHANGES IN COMPANY'S OWN SHARES
Length: 1522 words

Body


NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION TO U.S. NEWSWIRE SERVICES ORDISSEMINATION IN THE UNITED STATES

DENVER, Aug. 07, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Intermap Technologies (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF)
(“Intermap” or the “Company”), a global leader in 3D geospatial products and intelligence solutions, announces a
third amendment to the terms of its offering of Class "A" common shares of the Company (“Common Shares”),
previously announced on July 3, 2024, initially amended on July 19, 2024, and further amended on August 2, 2024,
to accommodate additional demand from subscribers (as further amended as described herein, the “Offering”).

Due to additional demand, the Company is increasing the total maximum number of Common Shares to be offered
by 200,000 additional Common Shares, for an aggregate maximum under the Offering of up to 7,349,444 Common
Shares when combined with the Common Shares issued under the previously announced first and second
tranches. The additional Common Shares are being offered at the same price of CAD$0.45 per Common Share, for
maximum gross proceeds under the Offering of up to approximately CAD$3,307,250. Upon issuance, all of the
Common Shares issued under the Offering will rank pari passu in all respects with the Company’s existing issued
Common Shares.

The Company intends to close the third and final tranche of the Offering before August 9, 2024. The third tranche
will include the issuance of 2,494,444 Common Shares at a price of CAD$0.45 per Common Share for aggregate
gross proceeds of approximately CAD$1,122,500. Patrick A. Blott, Chairman and CEO of Intermap, will participate
in the third tranche of the Offering, acquiring approximately 6% of the Common Shares issued under the third
tranche. The closing of each tranche of the Offering, including the third tranche, is subject to certain conditions
including, but not limited to, the receipt of all necessary regulatory and other approvals.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
  Intermap Expands Offering Due to Demand The Company intends to close the third and final tranche this week

In connection with this Offering, Intermap has engaged a third-party finder (the “Finder”) to conduct a best efforts
private placement of the Common Shares. The Finder will receive the same fee of: (i) an aggregate cash fee equal
to 1% of the gross proceeds of the Offering; and (ii) an issuance of Common Shares equal to 6% of the Common
Shares placed by the Finder under Offering.

The Company intends to use the aggregate net proceeds of the Offering for the execution of contracts and for
working capital. Primarily, the capital will be used to execute on its contract with the Indonesian government to map
the island of Sulawesi, representing 10% of Indonesia land mass, as well as on a renewed and expanded contract
with the U.S. Air Force. The net proceeds of the Offering may also be used in connection with other Southeast
Asian contract awards as well as a major renewal and expansion of a global insurance client agreement. Further
details on the use of proceeds are set forth in the Third Amended Offering Document (as defined herein).

Subject to compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, the Common Shares will be offered for sale to
purchasers resident in Canada (except Quebec) pursuant to the listed issuer financing exemption under Part 5A of
National Instrument 45-106 – Prospectus Exemptions (the “Listed Issuer Financing Exemption”) and to purchasers
resident in the United States by way of private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration
requirements under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “1933 Act”). Because the Offering is
being completed pursuant to the Listed Issuer Financing Exemption, the securities issued in Canada under the
Offering will not be subject to a hold period in Canada pursuant to applicable Canadian securities laws.

There is a third amended offering document related to this Offering (the “Third Amended Offering Document”) that
can be accessed under the Company’s profile at www.sedarplus.ca and on Intermap’s website at
www.intermap.com. Prospective investors should read this Third Amended Offering Document before making an
investment decision.

The securities described herein have not been, and will not be, registered under the 1933 Act, or any state
securities laws, and accordingly, may not be offered or sold within the United States except in compliance with the
registration requirements of the 1933 Act and applicable state securities requirements or pursuant to exemptions
therefrom. This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there
be any sale of the securities in the United States or in any other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale
would be unlawful.

Intermap Reader AdvisoryCertain information provided in this news release, including reference to the availability of
proceeds from the Offering, the Company’s ability to raise up to the maximum proceeds of the Offering, the use of
proceeds of the Offering, the expectation that the Offering will close and the anticipated timing thereof, the
anticipated participation of the Company’s Chairman CEO in the Offering, the award of new contracts and contract
renewals and the use of proceeds in the Offering in connection therewith, constitutes forward-looking statements.
The words “will”, “may”, “intends”, “expected to”, “anticipate”, “subject to”, “phase” and similar expressions are
intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Although Intermap believes that these statements are based
on information and assumptions which are current, reasonable and complete, these statements are necessarily
subject to a variety of known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Intermap’s forward-looking statements are
subject to risks and uncertainties pertaining to, among other things, cash available to fund operations, availability of
capital, revenue fluctuations, the nature of government contracts, including changing political circumstances in the
relevant jurisdictions, economic conditions, loss of key customers, retention and availability of executive talent,
competing technologies, common share price volatility, loss of proprietary information, software functionality,
internet and system infrastructure functionality, information technology security, breakdown of strategic alliances,
and international and political considerations, as well as those risks and uncertainties discussed Intermap’s Annual
Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2023 and other securities filings. While the Company makes
these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or
should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from those expected.
Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will
transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what benefits that the Company will derive therefrom. All subsequent
forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, attributable to Intermap or persons acting on its behalf are
expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements contained in

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
  Intermap Expands Offering Due to Demand The Company intends to close the third and final tranche this week

this news release are made as at the date of this news release and the Company does not undertake any obligation
to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking statements made herein, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable securities law.

About Intermap Technologies

Founded in 1997 and headquartered in Denver, Colorado, Intermap (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF) is a global leader
in geospatial intelligence solutions, focusing on the creation and analysis of 3D terrain data to produce high-
resolution thematic models. Through scientific analysis of geospatial information and patented sensors and
processing technology, the Company provisions diverse, complementary, multi-source datasets to enable
customers to seamlessly integrate geospatial intelligence into their workflows. Intermap’s 3D elevation data and
software analytic capabilities enable global geospatial analysis through artificial intelligence and machine
learning, providing customers with critical information to understand their terrain environment. By leveraging its
proprietary archive of the world’s largest collection of multi-sensor global elevation data, the Company’s collection
and processing capabilities provide multi-source 3D datasets and analytics at mission speed, enabling governments
and companies to build and integrate geospatial foundation data with actionable insights. Applications for
Intermap’s products and solutions include defense, aviation and UAV flight planning, flood and wildfire insurance,
disaster mitigation, base mapping, environmental and renewable energy planning, telecommunications,
engineering, critical infrastructure monitoring, hydrology, land management, oil and gas and transportation.

For more information, please visit www.intermap.com               or    contact:Patrick   A.   BlottChairman     and
CEOCEO@intermap.com +1 (303) 708-0955

Sean PeasgoodInvestor RelationsSean@SophicCapital.com +1 (647) 260-9266


Load-Date: August 7, 2024


  
