

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 5
                 UNM FACULTY MEMBERS SELECTED FOR THE 2024 WOMEN IN STEM AWARDS




    UNM FACULTY MEMBERS SELECTED FOR THE 2024 WOMEN IN STEM
                           AWARDS
                                                        US Fed News
                                              July 15, 2024 Monday 12:32 PM EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 2637 words

Body


ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., July 15 -- The University of New Mexico issued the following news release:

Fourteen faculty members at the University of New Mexico have been selected for the 2024 Women in STEM
Awards.

The 11 funded projects include a study of carbon storage in soils along the middle Rio Grande floodplain, an
investigation into rural New Mexico healthcare workforce challenges and opportunities, and the development of new
software for large scale 3-D printing with adobe.

Selected award recipients will also consider water treatment processes for atmospheric water harvesting, look for
ways to improve local food system cohesion, and study the role of social interaction in stress and depression,
among other things.

Now in their ninth year, the awards have allocated $585,660 to 80 women at UNM.

Several of the 11 projects selected this year are collaborative or interdisciplinary efforts.

The 2024 winners are:

* Leah Buechley, an associate professor in Computer Science and Maryam Hojati, an assistant professor in Civil
Engineering;

* Kate Cartwright, an associate professor in Public Administration;

* Chanee Choi, an assistant professor in Film and Digital Arts;

* Deena Gould, an assistant professor in Teacher Education, Educational Leadership and Policy;

* Natasha Howard, an assistant professor in Geography and Environmental Sciences;

* Elspeth Iralu, an assistant professor in Community and Regional Planning;

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 5
              UNM FACULTY MEMBERS SELECTED FOR THE 2024 WOMEN IN STEM AWARDS

* Allyson McGaughey and Anjali Mulchandani, assistant professors in Civil, Construction and Environmental
Engineering;

* Elif Tunc-Ozcan, an assistant professor in Neurosciences;

* Marisa Repasch, an assistant professor in Earth and Planetary Sciences and Alex Webster, an assistant
professor in Biology;

* Eva Stricker, a research assistant professor in Biology;

* and Kamilla Venner, an associate professor in Psychology.

The awards are hosted by Advance at UNM in collaboration with the UNM Office of Academic Affairs and the Office
of the Vice President for Research. Advance is a National Science Foundation-initiated program at UNM to promote
women faculty, particularly faculty of color in STEM, and to create a supportive campus climate for everyone.

Advance Director Julia Fulghum said the awards review committee received many proposals that are different from
those in the past several years.

"The pandemic had a big impact on the type of proposals we received during the past couple of years. This year
marked a shift, and we saw an increase in collaborative proposals, proposals from faculty thinking about their paths
from associate professor to professor, and proposals supporting research travel," she said. "It was exciting to see
this level of enthusiasm and planning from applicants. The collaboration with Academic Affairs and the OVPR
means we're able to support some creative and ambitious work."

UNM Provost James Holloway said he's looking forward to seeing the results of the work of the awardees.

"We at UNM are grateful to the anonymous donation that has made it possible for us to support our incredible
faculty. Their discoveries advance New Mexico and our nation - I'm excited to see how this award helps them
advance their science," he said.

Funding for the Women in STEM Awards is from an anonymous gift made to UNM to support research by, and
professorships for, women faculty in science, technology, engineering, and math. Income from the gift is used to
help women assistant and associate STEM professors at UNM to establish new lines of research and to develop
research collaborations.

Support also comes from the UNM Office of the Vice President for Research.

The awarded projects are:

* Buechley and Hojati's project, New Software and Materials for Very-Large-Scale Adobe 3D Printing, will "develop
new software and materials that enable us to 3D print complex architectures, including domes and arches, from
local New Mexico soil. By combining research into materials and toolpath-planning algorithms, we aim to
dramatically expand the kinds of structures that can be 3D printed from adobe," Buechley said.

"I am really excited about the work this award will enable us to do. Through our collaboration, I believe we are going
to be able to do truly transformative research and build (or 3D print) structures that no one has been able to build
before," Buechley said.

Hojati said she's "incredibly grateful for this funding to explore the exciting potential of 3D-printed adobe
construction. This project aspires to revolutionize adobe construction, making it faster, more efficient, and
environmentally friendly."

* Cartwright's project, Investigating Rural Healthcare Workforce Challenges and Opportunities: A Qualitative
Examination of Rural New Mexican Clinicians and Administrators, aims to address rural healthcare worker
shortages in New Mexico.

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 5
              UNM FACULTY MEMBERS SELECTED FOR THE 2024 WOMEN IN STEM AWARDS

"This project will investigate the challenges of rural health workforce shortages and the strengths of rural healthcare
organizations and professionals here in rural New Mexico with a specific focus on healthcare leaders," she said. "By
better understanding the factors keeping rural healthcare workers in their roles and identifying the barriers they
face, the study aims to help New Mexican policymakers and healthcare administrators develop strategies to
improve healthcare access and quality in rural areas."

Cartwright called the award a "significant milestone."

"It combines my expertise in research and teaching in a new, strategic direction. This project not only advances my
research agenda and professional goals, but also will allow me to strengthen relationships with rural healthcare
partners across the state which improves the likelihood that this research will have an applied impact," she said.

* Choi's award, Remembrance Project, will fund the travel and ongoing work that explores the emotional landscape
of early-onset Alzheimer's disease. The project uses cutting-edge technology including machine learning and
electroencephalogram (EEG) sensors "to create an immersive live narrative driven by brainwave activity," according
to Choi's proposal.

"Remembrance Project reproduces the data of dementia patients in poetry, AI and 3D technologies, showing an
artist using a brain sensor to play this gamified animation," Choi said. "By using Hangul in my project, I paid tribute
to my mother, a dementia patient in Korea, by repeatedly incorporating her voice and related poems."

Choi said the award holds great significance for her.

"My research focuses on the history of oppression faced by women and the artistic representation of dementia. By
exploring disease, technology, and love from a feminist perspective, this award strengthens my belief in my
research and gives me the confidence to pursue my work with greater assurance."

* Gould's project, Geosciences and Science Teacher Leadership in New Mexico, focuses on publishing science
education and teacher leadership materials for the diverse communities of New Mexico.

The effort aims to help Native American students "to connect school science with their cultural identities and cultural
ways of knowing," according to Gould's proposal. She will work with Darryl Reano, an assistant professor in the
School of Earth and Space Exploration at Arizona State University, who has researched and published about
creating and studying culturally relevant educational environments in New Mexico using Indigenous research
frameworks.

"We intend to develop a model of science teacher leadership that connects schools science with other ways of
doing science which includes families and their community and cultural ways of knowing and doing science. We
intend to develop K-12 science teacher leadership that supports and advances the implementation of culturally
relevant K-12 science for the diverse communities of New Mexico."

* Howard's project, Geographical History of the Detroit River, will fund archival research in Detroit, Mich., and
Washington D.C. on the Detroit River for a planned book on the history and resilience of the river and the way
humans have impacted it, including through pollution and clean-up efforts.

Books published to date on the river have not "taken a comprehensive look at the longer history of human
interactions with the Detroit River from the pre-colonial period to the present era," according to Howard's proposal.

"The Detroit River was home to at least five different Native American communities when European settlers
arrived," she said. "French and later Anglo settlers arrived on the banks of the river. New waves of European
immigrants built communities near its riverbanks. Later, the river became an important space for African Americans
during the Great Migration. The spaces surrounding the Detroit River became known as Black Bottom and Paradise
Valley, the oldest historically Black communities in the city. In the 1920s, Mexicantown was born, and is still today,
home to a large and growing Mexican/Latinx community."

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 5
               UNM FACULTY MEMBERS SELECTED FOR THE 2024 WOMEN IN STEM AWARDS

Howard said she's thankful for the award "because it will allow me to begin a new research project on a place that is
very familiar but one I have overlooked. For me, the history of the Detroit River defines resiliency. It is the story of
how the river has come back time and time again to sustain and care for many communities over hundreds of
years."

* Iralu's project, Indigenous Himalaya: Naga Methodologies for Community Resilience, will go toward travel for a
collaboration between Iralu and Dolly Kikon, professor of Anthropology at University of California, Santa Cruz. The
work is "to connect essential questions and debates of Indigenous studies with our community of origin, Nagaland,
an Indigenous territory at the border of India and Myanmar, and to develop funding proposals for work on
community resilience in the Indigenous Himalayas," Iralu said.

"Through collaborative work on Naga Indigenous methodologies, we aim to bolster a movement of Naga
scholarship that centers Indigeneity in research on environmental and climate justice," she said.

Iralu said she's excited for the opportunities that the award presents.

"The collaboration travel award will provide essential support for an ongoing collaborative project on Indigenous
methodologies which is meaningful not only for our scholarly fields, but also for our community of origin. What is
most exciting is the opportunity to connect this project to new work by Indigenous Himalayan scholars and help
create the conditions of possibility for further research on Indigeneity in the Himalayan region," she said.

* McGaughey and Mulchandani's project, Advanced Water Treatment Processes for Atmospheric Water
Harvesting, will develop effective water treatment processes that enable atmospheric water harvesting for water
supply in rural, decentralized areas and after disaster events.

McGaughey said she's thankful for the seed funding for the grant at this early stage of her career at UNM. The work
builds on research by Mulchandani on atmospheric water harvesting.

"This water was previously believed to be pure, but Professor Mulchandani's research has shown that it is not - and
that it contains unique contaminants compared to our usual water sources. So, there are many exciting questions to
answer about how treatment processes work to remove these contaminants - I can't wait to see what we find."

Mulchandani said she's ready to get started on the work.

"I am excited to receive this award and begin collaborating with the newest faculty member in our department,
Professor Allyson McGaughey. This work is a great synergy between our respective expertise. Atmospheric water
harvesting could present a viable new source of water, but adequate water treatment needs to be applied to ensure
safety for fit-for-purpose use. Allyson is an expert in water treatment processes, and I look forward to our groups
collaborating to retrieve samples from the field, measure water quality in the lab, and design and test new treatment
processes."

* Tunc-Ozcan's project, An overlooked component of affect regulation: social transfer of stress and antidepressant
effects and the role of adult neurogenesis in these processes, will study "how stress and the effects of
antidepressants can be transferred between individuals through social interaction," Tunc-Ozcan said. "Our goal is to
understand the role of new brain cells in these processes and how they influence mood, behavior, and social
transference."

Tunc-Ozcan said she's grateful for the award.

"I aim to use this funding to foster a productive collaboration to explore the intricate dynamics of stress and
antidepressant effects in a social context."

* Repasch and Webster's project, Towards resilient riverscapes: Understanding feedbacks between hydrologic
variability, geomorphic change, and soil carbon persistence in the middle Rio Grande, will analyze carbon storage
in floodplain soils at four key sites along the middle Rio Grande floodplain. The sites are within the Bosque
Ecosystem Monitoring Program, where ecosystem data has been collected during the past 27 years.

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 5
              UNM FACULTY MEMBERS SELECTED FOR THE 2024 WOMEN IN STEM AWARDS

Both Repasch and Webster said they are looking to deepen inter-departmental collaboration through the project.

"Rivers and their floodplains are hotspots of carbon storage and transformation processes that fuel food webs and
help mitigate climate change, but are stressed by human water use, river regulation, and a warming, drying climate.
We aim to understand how changing water availability and floodplain processes impact carbon storage in floodplain
soils through detailed analyses of sediment cores from several sites along the middle Rio Grande, New Mexico,"
Repasch and Webster said.

* Stricker's project, Food System Cohesion Within and Beyond UNM, will examine ways to strengthen the food
systems at UNM and throughout the state. The work will bring together a 30-member group that includes UNM
faculty, staff, and students as well as external experts in academic food system programs and New Mexico food
system entities. Among other things, the group will assess current food system resources and challenges and make
plans for ongoing collaboration and grant writing.

"Research and student engagement in the food system is crucial for local food systems in New Mexico to maintain
resilience in the face of climate change, land development, and aging producer workforce, but currently UNM's food
system work is distributed across multiple disciplines," Stricker said.

"The workshops will be successful if we can build a plan and strategy for UNM to serve students and community
members in creating and sustaining an equitable local food system, with targeted research and engagement at
relevant steps in production, processing, distribution, marketing, preparation, and waste," she said.

* Venner's award is for travel funding to New Zealand to collaborate with Maori Indigenous researchers, treatment
providers, and people with lived experience for her ongoing research on addiction treatment programs for American
Indian and Alaska Native people.

"For my first sabbatical, I am excited to meet with Maori researchers and clinicians who are culturally tailoring
evidence-based treatments for psychological disorders to forge new collaborative research projects."

Addiction treatment for American Indian/Alaska Native people has been predominantly designed by and for non-
Hispanic White populations, which underscores the need for more culturally relevant programs and for cross-
country collaboration on the best solutions, she wrote in her proposal.

"As an Indigenous scholar, I believe collaborating with other Indigenous scholars will be a powerful way to move our
science of cultural adaptations forward," she said.

Learn more about past winners and how you can help support the awards. For any query with respect to this article
or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htdigital.in


Load-Date: July 16, 2024


  
