

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
   Assured Data Protection Launches Latin America Operations Offering Rubrik Technology Countries across the
                             region are facing sustained levels of cyberattacks, wh....




    Assured Data Protection Launches Latin America Operations Offering
 Rubrik Technology; Countries across the region are facing sustained levels
 of cyberattacks, which are set to increase as cyber criminals add AI to their
                                    toolbox
                                                 Business Wire
                                     August 22, 2024 Thursday 1:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 812 words
Dateline: HERNDON, Va. & LEEDS, England

Body


Assured Data Protection (Assured), the prominent IT managed services provider (MSP) for cloud data protection
solutions, today announces the expansion of its operations into Latin America, including establishing Rubrik's
presence across the region. The two companies enter a joint venture agreement that ensures enterprises of all
sizes across the region can achieve true cyber resiliency through Assured's 24/7/365 managed service.

Assured, a Rubrik MSP, gives enterprises complete resilience with the power to bounce back fast from
cyberattacks. In Latin America, Rubrik success rate ensures rapid recovery for its customers following a
ransomware attack. By utilizing Assured's managed services model, enterprises of all sizes across Latin America
will benefit from a more flexible approach to Rubrik deployment at a price point that will be affordable to all.
Enterprises in Latin America will now be able to rapidly recover from cyberattacks, including ransomware.

Fiorella Minaya Rey, Channel Account Manager, Latin America, Assured Data Protection, commented: "Rubrik
offers an outstanding immutable cyber recovery technology. To ensure that enterprises of all sizes can take
advantage of Rubrik, there will be no limitations on the amount of data that customers can secure - it can be as
small or large as required."

Ghazal Asif, VP, Global Channels & Alliances, Rubrik, commented: "As a trusted partner, Rubrik is proud to support
Assured's new expansion into Latin America. Organizations need to enable cyber resilience in the face of the
increasing cyber threat landscape and there is no better way for Latin American companies to do that than working
with Rubrik and Assured."

Center of Excellence

As part of the expansion, Assured is launching a regional Center of Excellence located in Costa Rica staffed by
highly trained engineers. Assured has made extensive Spanish speaking technical, sales and client services hires
across the region to provide high quality, 24/7 support in all countries, across sectors including manufacturing,
banking, education and others.

                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
  Assured Data Protection Launches Latin America Operations Offering Rubrik Technology Countries across the
                            region are facing sustained levels of cyberattacks, wh....

Simon Chappell, CEO, Assured Data Protection, commented: "Our launch into Latin America is another important
step forward in our ambitious growth plans for 2024 and beyond. We want to continue to deliver our innovative
disaster recovery solutions with industry leading managed services to every business that needs it. Our new
Center of Excellence is a strategic move to help build on our best of breed customer service for customers and will
see all of our customers across the globe benefit from its expertise."

Assured's Latin America Center of Excellence will operate with a mix of human technical expertise and leading-
edge automation that will facilitate a proactive approach to threat response. As a result, many threats will be
negated before customers are aware of them. This highly innovative model and approach to cyber resiliency will be
deployed by Assured as it expands into other regions, beyond Latin America, North America and Europe.

Assured has established operations in key markets such as Mexico, Peru, Costa Rica, Chile and Colombia.
Assured continues to serve a diverse portfolio of clients including major accounts such as Niubiz, America Tv,
Ferromex, Farmacias Roma and more. This expansion marks an important milestone in Assured's commitment to
offering the best data protection solution across the region, leveraging Rubrik's advanced technology to improve
service delivery and customer satisfaction.

To book a meeting with the Assured team, please contact us at info@assured-dp.com .

About Rubrik

Rubrik (NYSE: RBRK) is on a mission to secure the world's data. With Zero Trust Data Security(TM), we help
organizations achieve business resilience against cyberattacks, malicious insiders, and operational disruptions.
Rubrik Security Cloud, powered by machine learning, secures data across enterprise, cloud, and SaaS
applications. We help organizations uphold data integrity, deliver data availability that withstands adverse
conditions, continuously monitor data risks and threats, and restore businesses with their data when infrastructure
is attacked.

For more information please visit www.rubrik.com and follow @rubrikInc on X (formerly Twitter) and Rubrik on
LinkedIn.

About Assured Data Protection

Assured Data Protection is a global data backup, disaster recovery, business continuity and extended detection
and response managed service provider. With more than 200 years of combined industry experience, Assured Data
Protection delivers scalable solutions and gained the distinction of being selected by Solutions Review Magazine as
a Top 20 Vendor for data disaster recovery and CIO Review as a Top 20 Vendor for data backup. For more
information, visit www.assured-dp.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240822829326/en/


CONTACT: Media Contact:
Meghan Fintland
Head of Global PR, Rubrik
925.785.9192

Meghan.Fintland@rubrik.com


http://www.businesswire.com

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
  Assured Data Protection Launches Latin America Operations Offering Rubrik Technology Countries across the
                            region are facing sustained levels of cyberattacks, wh....


Load-Date: August 22, 2024


  
