

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
  University of Exeter : AI Can Support Humanitarian Organizations in Situations of Armed Conflict or Crisis - But
                                They Should Understand the Potential Risks, Stu....




      University of Exeter: AI Can Support Humanitarian Organizations in
    Situations of Armed Conflict or Crisis - But They Should Understand the
                         Potential Risks, Study Warns
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              July 12, 2024 Friday 7:50 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 538 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: EXETER, England

Body


(TNSres) -- The University of Exeter issued the following news:

AI can help humanitarians gain crucial insights to better monitor and anticipate risks, such as a conflict outbreak or
escalation. But deploying systems in this context is not without risks for those affected, a new study warns.

Humanitarian organisations have been increasingly using digital technologies and the Covid-19 pandemic has
accelerated this trend.

AI-supported disaster mapping was used in Mozambique to speed up emergency response, and AI systems were
used to predict food crisis and rolled out by the World Bank across twenty-one countries.

But the study warns some uses of AI may expose people to additional harms and present significant risks for the
protection of their rights.

The study, published in the Handbook on Warfare and Artificial Intelligence, is by Professor Ana Beduschi, from
the University of Exeter Law School.

Professor Beduschi said: "AI technologies have the potential to further expand the toolkit of humanitarian missions
in their preparedness, response, and recovery.

"But safeguards must be put in place to ensure that AI systems used to support the work of humanitarians are not
transformed into tools of exclusion of populations in need of assistance. Safeguards concerning the respect and
protection of data privacy should also be put in place.

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 2
  University of Exeter : AI Can Support Humanitarian Organizations in Situations of Armed Conflict or Crisis - But
                                They Should Understand the Potential Risks, Stu....

"The humanitarian imperative of 'do no harm' should be paramount to all deployment of AI systems in situations of
conflict and crisis."

The study says humanitarian organisations designing AI systems should ensure data protection by design and by
default to minimise risks of harm - whether they are legally obliged to do so or not. They should also use Data
protection impact assessments (DPIAs) to understand the potential negative impacts of these technologies.

Grievance mechanisms should also be established so people can challenge decisions that were either automated
or made by humans with the support of AI systems if these adversely impacted them.

Professor Beduschi said: "AI systems can analyse large amounts of multidimensional data at increasingly fast
speeds, identify patterns in the data, and predict future behaviour. That can help organisations gain crucial insights
to better monitor and anticipate risks, such as a conflict outbreak or escalation.

"Yet, deploying AI systems in the humanitarian context is not without risks for the affected populations. Issues
include the poor quality of the data used to train AI algorithms, the existence of algorithmic bias, the lack of
transparency about AI decision-making, and the pervading concerns about the respect and protection of data
privacy.

"It is crucial that humanitarians abide by the humanitarian imperative of 'do not harm' when deciding whether to
deploy AI to support their action. In many cases, the sensible solution would be not to rely on AI technologies as
these may cause additional harm to civilian populations."

***

Original   text   here:    https://news.exeter.ac.uk/faculty-of-humanities-arts-and-social-sciences/ai-can-support-
humanitarian-organisations-in-situations-of-armed-conflict-or-crisis-but-they-should-understand-the-potential-risks-
study-warns/

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8719416 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 12, 2024


  
