

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
     Watch Duty Incorporates University of California 's ALERTCalifornia Camera Network to Enhance Wildfire
                                                    Awareness




 Watch Duty Incorporates University of California's ALERTCalifornia Camera
                 Network to Enhance Wildfire Awareness
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           July 24, 2024 Wednesday 10:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 661 words
Dateline: HEALDSBURG, Calif., July 24, 2024

Body


PR NewswireUC San Diego's ALERTCalifornia camera network's live feeds are the newest addition to Watch
Duty's public situational awareness platformHEALDSBURG, Calif., July 24, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Watch Duty, the
non-profit public safety information organization and app, recently announced the incorporation of the University of
California San Diego's ALERTCalifornia camera network onto their platform. Integrating the camera feeds directly
into the Watch Duty Map provides users with real-time visual updates on wildfire conditions to enhance situational
awareness.

 Users of the Watch Duty app will now have access to ALERTCalifornia's live camera views alongside continuous
updates provided by Watch Duty's network of radio scanner volunteers. UC San Diego's ALERTCalifornia is a
state-focused program that manages more than 1,090 pan-tilt-zoom monitoring cameras and sensor arrays as part
of a larger research program. The incorporation of ALERTCalifornia's extensive network into Watch Duty's platform
increases the diversity of information available to the public during wildfires."We are thrilled to collaborate with
ALERTCalifornia to bring their cutting-edge wildfire monitoring technology directly to our users," said John Mills,
CEO of Watch Duty. "By integrating ALERTCalifornia's camera feeds into our app, we are providing an invaluable
tool for those in wildfire-prone areas, enabling them to see real-time conditions to make informed decisions
regarding wildfire threats."This integration underscores both organizations' commitment to enhancing wildfire safety
and communication for all communities. This collaboration highlights the importance of collaboration and leveraging
technology to improve wildfire monitoring and public awareness."UC San Diego's ALERTCalifornia platform
provides state-of-the-art sensor technology to support data-driven decisions before, during, and after extreme
wildfires," said Neal Driscoll, ALERTCalifornia director and geoscientist at UC San Diego's Scripps Institution of
Oceanography. . "We are pleased to collaborate with Watch Duty to provide actionable real-time data to quickly
scale fire resources, help evacuations through enhanced situational awareness, and monitor fire behavior."The
integration of ALERTCalifornia's cameras into the Watch Duty app is live and available to all users. For more
information about Watch Duty and to download the app, visit watchduty.org.For more information about
ALERTCalifornia and to view all cameras, visit alertcalifornia.org.About Watch Duty:Watch Duty is a 501(c)(3)
nonprofit organization dedicated to providing real-time wildfire information and alerts to help communities make
informed decisions during wildfire events. The Watch Duty app is powered by a network of volunteers, including
firefighters and first responders, who monitor radio scanners and send up-to-the-minute information directly to
users' phones.About ALERTCaliforniaALERTCalifornia is a University of California San Diego public safety

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 2
     Watch Duty Incorporates University of California 's ALERTCalifornia Camera Network to Enhance Wildfire
                                                    Awareness

program that provides critical infrastructure for mitigating wildfire and natural disaster risk to life, property and
ecosystems. The advanced network of more than 1,090 cameras across California helps emergency managers
monitor natural disasters such as wildfires, floods, and landslides. ALERTCalifornia is a vital resource that provides
an array of technological tools, infrastructure and research that supports government agencies, utilities, and the
public in their response to ever-increasing natural disasters. ALERTCalifornia is a multi-hazard platform that
provides remote sensing data and AI to help California prepare for, respond to, and recover from events. Learn
more and view the live cameras at ALERTCalifornia.org.                     View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/watch-duty-incorporates-university-of-californias-
alertcalifornia-camera-network-to-enhance-wildfire-awareness-302204868.htmlSOURCE Watch Duty


Load-Date: July 24, 2024


  
