

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
               SuccessKPI Supports Mental Health Initiatives with Vibrant Emotional Health Partnership




SuccessKPI Supports Mental Health Initiatives with Vibrant Emotional Health
                             Partnership
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           August 27, 2024 Tuesday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 632 words
Dateline: FAIRFAX COUNTY, Va., Aug. 27, 2024

Body


PR NewswireSuccessKPI to sponsorWe the Resilient ConferenceOctober 1 – 3FAIRFAX COUNTY, Va., Aug.
27, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --SuccessKPI, Inc., a cloud-native, workforce engagement management (WEM) platform
provider and a leader of the current 2023 Frost & Sullivan Workforce Optimization (WFO) Radar report, is joining a
call to action to support mental health initiatives withVibrant Emotional Health (Vibrant)by sponsoring the We the
Resilient Conference, October 1—3, in Nashville, Tennessee.

 The conference is hosted by Vibrant, one of the nation's leading mental health organizations and administrator of
the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (988 Lifeline), which is funded by the Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA). The 988 Lifeline provides 24/7 care and support to people in crisis or emotional distress
via call, text and chat.Vibrant'sWe the Resilientconference in Nashville focuses on the important work that the
mental health community is doing for crisis and disaster intervention to support people, particularly at this time of
rising anxiety levels. As the frequency of disasters continues to rise nationwide, the need for strong communities
has never been more critical. SuccessKPI is proud to sponsor the conference and its goal to design human-first
systems and structures that build communal resilience to mental health crises in a sustainable and equitable
way."We are a values-led organization, of which 'caring for our partners and teammates' is core to SuccessKPI,"
said Dave Rennyson, CEO and founder of SuccessKPI. "Our customer, Vibrant, makes incredible impact for the
community. When presented with the opportunity to support their community building goals at the We the Resilient
conference, we did not hesitate."Suicide is an urgent and growing public health crisis. More than 49,000 people in
the United States died by suicide in 2022. That's one death every 11 minutes. Since the transition in July 2022, the
988 Lifeline has answered more than 10 million contacts. SuccessKPI provides Vibrant technology to unify data
handled by nationwide counselors into a single source of truth that enables insights including aggregate prevention
outcomes, call reasons summaries and regular operational insights for reporting."Together with caring and
dedicated corporate partners such as SuccessKPI, Vibrant and our public-private ecosystem are mapping out a
future where mental health is managed proactively before it reaches the crisis stage, treated with a preventative
medicine approach like any other medical condition," explained Grant Riewe, Chief Technology Officer of Vibrant
Emotional Health.Learn more about the fourth annual We the Resilient Conference on Disaster Behavioral
Health and Building a Truly Resilient Community, taking place from October 1-3, 2024, at the DoubleTree by
Hilton in downtown Nashville, Tennessee.About SuccessKPISuccessKPI is a revolutionary enterprise AI,
Analytics & Automation company enabling contact centers to utilize artificial intelligence and automation to
improve business outcomes and transform customer experiences. SuccessKPI's insight and action platform

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
             SuccessKPI Supports Mental Health Initiatives with Vibrant Emotional Health Partnership

removes the obstacles that agents, managers and executives encounter in delivering exceptional customer service.
We are trusted by some of the world's largest government, business process outsourcing (BPO), financial,
healthcare and technology contact centers in the United States, Europe and Latin America. Learn more
atwww.successkpi.com.Social Networks:Web: successkpi.comBlog: Read SuccessKPI BlogLinkedIn: Connect with
SuccessKPI View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/successkpi-
supports-mental-health-initiatives-with-vibrant-emotional-health-partnership-302231526.htmlSOURCE SuccessKPI


Load-Date: August 27, 2024


  
