

                                                                            Page 1 of 2
   SBA ANNOUNCES NEW SOLICITATION TO EXPAND FUNDING FOR REGIONAL INNOVATION CLUSTER
                                       NETWORK




        SBA ANNOUNCES NEW SOLICITATION TO EXPAND FUNDING FOR
               REGIONAL INNOVATION CLUSTER NETWORK
                                                 States News Service
                                                 June 28, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 697 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA):

Regional Innovation Clusters Will Increase Startup and Small Business Participation in U.S. Supply Chain

Published on June 28, 2024

WASHINGTONToday,Administrator Isabel Casillas Guzman,head of theU.S. Small Business Administration
(SBA)and the voice in President Biden's Cabinet for America's more than 33 million small businesses, announced a
new funding solicitation for the SBA's Regional Innovation Cluster (RIC) Initiative that will make awards for the first
time at two funding levels: emerging and mature clusters. The RIC solicitation will open on July 1, 2024, and will
close on July 26 at 1:00 PM ET.

"President Biden is delivering historic Investments in America that continue to strengthen innovation, supply chains,
and new industries, as well as spark a small business boom with 18 million new business applications filed," said
Administrator Guzman. "The SBA's Regional Innovation Cluster Initiative provides communities with funding to spur
further development of industry-focused entrepreneurship ecosystems that support small businesses developing
and commercializing critical technologies in key areas, such as developing safe, secure, and trustworthy AI. Our
two new funding levels will support both emerging and mature industry clusters and help ensure small business
innovators have access to the technical assistance, industry knowledge, and capital products necessary to start and
grow their businesses."

The SBA launched the RIC Initiative in September 2010 to promote and support the development of clusters, which
are geographically concentrated groups of interconnected businesses, suppliers, service providers, and associated
institutions in a particular industry or field across the country. Clusters act as a networking hub for small businesses,
convening several resources to help navigate the funding, procurement, and supply-chain opportunities in a specific
industry. They also assist businesses in matching cutting-edge technology to industry needs and increase the
number of innovative small businesses and entrepreneurs in the nation's supply chain. Emerging clusters develop
and deploy small business support services in their designated regions and industries, and the RIC Initiative

                                                                           Page 2 of 2
  SBA ANNOUNCES NEW SOLICITATION TO EXPAND FUNDING FOR REGIONAL INNOVATION CLUSTER
                                      NETWORK

enables them to scale their current and future programming to reach more small businesses. Mature clusters have
experience building and implementing programming to support small businesses, and the RIC Initiative enables
them to increase the effectiveness of programming and operations to reach more small businesses and strengthen
existing and new partnerships.

"The Office of Investment and Innovation catalyzes the development and growth of industry clusters across the
country, and the new funding levels are part of our ongoing effort to right-size our support for industry clusters
across their full life span," saidAssociate Administrator Bailey DeVries.

The SBA's Investment and Innovation Ecosystem Development in the Office of Investment and Innovation will host
a webinar on July 9, 2024 at 3:00 PM ET to discuss the solicitation.

###

About SBA's Office of Investment and Innovation

The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)Office of Investment and Innovation (OII) leads programs that
provide the U.S. growth-oriented small business and startup community with access to financial capital, networks,
assistance, and RandD funds to develop commercially viable innovations. Our work is underpinned by public-
private partnerships that help small businesses on their trajectory from idea to IPO. Learn more atsba.gov.

About the U.S. Small Business Administration

The U.S. Small Business Administration makes the American dream of business ownership a reality. As the only
go-to resource and voice for small businesses backed by the strength of the federal government, the SBA
empowers entrepreneurs and small business owners with the resources and support they need to start, grow, or
expand their businesses, or recover from a declared disaster.It delivers services through an extensive network of
SBA field offices and partnerships with public and private organizations.


Load-Date: June 28, 2024


  
