

                                                                           Page 1 of 3
   MATTER GROWS B2B TECH PORTFOLIO, ELEVATING BRAND AWARENESS + DRIVING BOTTOM-LINE
                              RESULTS FOR NEW CLIENTS




        MATTER GROWS B2B TECH PORTFOLIO, ELEVATING BRAND
      AWARENESS + DRIVING BOTTOM-LINE RESULTS FOR NEW CLIENTS
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           July 10, 2024 Wednesday 9:50 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 753 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: BOSTON, Massachusetts

Body


Matter Communications, a public relation and social media firm, issued the following news on July 9, 2024:

***

Agency's B2B tech team celebrates growth from new client partners, supporting successful brand awareness,
thought leadership content and creative marketing programs

***

Matter Communications, a brand elevation agency integrating PR, marketing and creative services - today
announced the growth of its B2B tech portfolio, highlighted by the addition of new clients spanning diverse sectors.
Matter continues to elevate B2B brand stories by creating and executing PR programs focused on high-impact
earned media coverage and compelling thought leadership content, and through fully integrated marketing
programs that deploy social media, SEO, creative design and other digital marketing campaigns to increase
awareness and sales.

"B2B technology companies are seeking smart communications and marketing solutions to differentiate themselves
and stand out amidst intensified competition by continuing to reinvent themselves and better communicate their
stories," said Tim Hurley, executive vice president, B2B tech, at Matter. "Matter has a rich and deeply respected
history of successfully elevating brand awareness for some of the world's most innovative technology leaders,
driving bottom-line results that marketers and their leadership teams demand."

The following is a subset of B2B tech companies who have recently partnered with Matter to advance the
effectiveness of their communications and/or marketing programs across sectors including cybersecurity, AI and
machine learning, IT services, retail, behavioral data, and more:

                                                                           Page 2 of 3
   MATTER GROWS B2B TECH PORTFOLIO, ELEVATING BRAND AWARENESS + DRIVING BOTTOM-LINE
                              RESULTS FOR NEW CLIENTS

* Fullstory, a leading behavioral data company that helps technology leaders make better, more informed decisions.
By injecting digital behavioral data into their analytics stack, its patented technology unlocks the power of quality
behavioral data at scale-transforming every digital visit into actionable insights.

* IntelePeer, an AI-powered communications automation platform provider.

* Lobyco, a global leader in grocery loyalty programs that builds engaging loyalty, promotions and checkout
propositions for retailers around the world.

* LogicGate, a global, market-leading SaaS company empowering customers to effectively manage and scale their
cyber risk and control, third-party risk management, compliance controls, enterprise risk, and operational resilience
programs.

* LTO Program, comprised of technology provider companies - Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, IBM Corp. and
Quantum Corp. - this organization supports the development of the linear tape-open (LTO) Ultrium technology for
long term data retention, disaster recovery and protection from cyberattacks.

* Presidio, a leading technology services and solutions provider with deep expertise in automation, security,
networking, digital transformation, and cloud computing.

* Synadia, providers of a secure, scalable, and high-performance data and communications platform designed for
modern distributed systems, empowering developers and enterprises to accelerate the delivery of multi-cloud, edge
and AI applications. Synadia leverages NATS.io, a connective technology used by thousands of companies across
the globe to power their digital initiatives.

"Matter acts as a true extension of our marketing team," said Jonathan Skinner, chief marketing officer of
LogicGate. "They've been an invaluable partner for marketing and PR, helping to drive the LogicGate brand forward
and raise awareness among our key stakeholders. We continue to generate impactful media opportunities for our
executive thought leaders in a distinct way that cuts through the noise, boosting our competitive share of voice and
expert industry presence."

Tech brands looking to explore a potential partnership with Matter or share Request for Proposals (RFPs) are
encouraged to contact Matter to receive a customized program evaluation.

***

About Matter Communications

Matter is a Brand Elevation Agency that integrates PR, marketing and creative services into campaigns that inspire
action and build value. Founded in 2003, with offices spanning North America, Matter works with the world's most
innovative companies across healthcare, high-technology, consumer technology and consumer markets.

***

Original text here: https://www.matternow.com/blog/matter-grows-b2b-tech-portfolio/

[Category: BizConsulting]

Contact: Greg Amaral, Matter Communications, gamaral@matternow.com; www.matternow.com

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8713668 MSTRUCK

                                                                          Page 3 of 3
  MATTER GROWS B2B TECH PORTFOLIO, ELEVATING BRAND AWARENESS + DRIVING BOTTOM-LINE
                             RESULTS FOR NEW CLIENTS


Load-Date: July 10, 2024


  
