

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 7
                                     TIP SHEET NUMBER 16 AUGUST 9, 2024




                               TIP SHEET NUMBER 16 AUGUST 9, 2024
                                               States News Service
                                               August 9, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 3207 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, DC

Body


The following information was released by the United States Census Bureau:

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

2020 Census

2020 Modified Age and Race Census File

The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled to release national and county-level modified age and race data by single-
year of age, sex, race, and Hispanic origin from the 2020 Census. Files were created by applying age smoothing to
a subset of age data as well as redistributing the "Some Other Race" values from the 2020 Census into the five
race categories included in the U.S. Office of Management and Budget1997 revised standards for the collection,
tabulation, and presentation of federal data on race and ethnicity. These data will allow for accurate comparisons by
race between 2020 Census results, the 2020 Demographic Analysis estimates, and the official population
estimates. Visit the Modified Race Data webpage to access modified race data from the 2010 and 2000 Censuses.
(Scheduled for release September 5.)

American Community Survey

2023 American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates

The 2023 American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year estimates are scheduled to be released September 12. These
data will be available for the nation, states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, congressional districts,
metropolitan areas, counties, places and other geographic areas with a population of 65,000 or more. These
estimates include topics such as language spoken at home, educational attainment, commute to work, employment,

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 7
                                     TIP SHEET NUMBER 16 AUGUST 9, 2024

mortgage status and rent, income, poverty and health insurance coverage. The Census Bureau is set to hold a
webinar Thursday, September 5, at 1 p.m. ET, explaining how to access data and online resources related to this
release. Embargo subscribers can access these statistics beginning at 10 a.m. ET, Tuesday, September 10.
(Scheduled for release at 12:01 a.m., Thursday, September 12.)

Demographic

Population Pyramid for Detailed Hispanic Origin Groups

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release a new data visualization How do Hispanic or Latino Groups in the United
States Compare? This interactive population pyramid uses 2000, 2010, and 2020 census data to allow users to
view changes in regional and detailed Hispanic or Latino groups such as Mexican, Puerto Rican, Salvadoran and
Colombian over time. Users can also directly compare groups to view differences in age and sex distributions. The
tool will be available in English and Spanish. (Tentatively scheduled for release in August.)

Income in the United States: 2023

The Census Bureau will announce the nation's annual estimates on income, earnings and inequality to evaluate
national economic trends and understand their effect on the well-being of households and individuals. These
estimates are based on the 2024 Current Population Survey Annual Social and Economic Supplement. (Scheduled
for release September 10.)

Health Insurance in the United States: 2023

The Census Bureau will announce the nation's annual health insurance coverage estimates highlighting
comparisons between 2022 and 2023 data as well as examining characteristics by health insurance status to better
understand the well-being of individuals. These estimates are based on the 2024 Current Population Survey Annual
Social and Economic Supplement. State-level American Community Survey data will be released September 12.
(Scheduled for release September 10.)

Poverty in the United States: 2023

The Census Bureau will announce the nation's official poverty and Supplemental Poverty Measure (SPM) estimates
to help gauge the economic well-being of households, families and individuals. These estimates are based on the
2024 Current Population Survey Annual Social and Economic Supplement. (Scheduled for release September 10.)

Household Pulse Survey

The experimental (Household Pulse Survey HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4.2 topics include access to transportation and the internet, shortage of critical items and updated response
options for the ages of children and school enrollment. Previously asked questions on babies or infants in the
household and unemployment insurance items have been removed. Data collection for phase 4.2 began July 23
with data dissemination, including detailed data tables, an interactive data tool, and public-use files, on a monthly
basis. (Scheduled for release September 12 and October 3.)

Economic

2023 Annual Integrated Economic Survey Due

The due date for the 2023 Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) has officially passed. Businesses can report
by logging on to the respondent portal and accessing their survey card. For more information or assistance with
completing this survey, visit www.census.gov/aies/information or call the AIES customer help line at 1-800-681-
3012, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-8 p.m. ET.

" The Intergenerational Transmission of Employers and the Earnings of Young Workers "

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 7
                                    TIP SHEET NUMBER 16 AUGUST 9, 2024

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute, welcomes
Matthew Staiger, research scientist at Opportunity Insights, as he presents, "The Intergenerational Transmission of
Employers and the Earnings of Young Workers." This study shows how the intergenerational persistence in
earnings is shaped by jobs obtained at a parent's employer. Combining data from the Longitudinal Employer-
Household Dynamics (LEHD) program and Decennial Census provides information on parent-child and employer-
employee linkages. (Scheduled for August 20.)

Ocean Economy Data for U.S. Territories

The Census Bureau will release County Business Patterns estimates of the Ocean Economy in the 5 U.S.
Territories (Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the
U.S. Virgin Islands). Estimates are provided by non-standard state- and county-equivalent geographies, comprised
of selected coastal ZIP codes across each territory, and by the Economics: National Ocean Watch sectors, defined
by the Office for Coastal Management at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (Scheduled for
release August 21.)

Exploring Census Data Webinar Series: Highlights of Key Programs and Data

Census Bureau subject matter experts will present information available from multiple sources with crucial statistics
for business needs. You will learn about the different business and demographic data available from the Business
Dynamics Statistics and the American Community Survey. Explore establishment and firm characteristics to include
dynamics such as job creation and destruction, startups, shutdowns, and the importance of demographic data. The
session includes a live demonstration on how to access the data along with illustrations of real-world applications.
Engage directly with our experts through live chat and the QandA segment. This webinar is part 5 of 6 in a series to
help data users discover Census Bureau data related to people, places, and the economy. (Scheduled for August
22.)

Quarterly Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenues: 2nd Quarter 2024

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a summary of quarterly estimates of state and local government tax revenue
at the national level as well as detailed tax revenue data for individual states. This report produces two income and
sales data tables and one table for tax collections by state. More information about this release is available in the
2024 Quarterly Summary of State and Local Tax Revenue tables at census.gov. (Scheduled for release September
12.)

Cannabis Excise Sales Tax Collections: 2nd Quarter 2024

The U.S. Census Bureau will release experimental data and an updated data visualization featuring quarterly tax
collections at the state level for cannabis sales. Data for cannabis sales taxes were reported in the Quarterly
Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenue and were first released for the second quarter of 2023. The
data visualization provides cannabis revenue as a percentage of the states' total tax revenue where available and
percent change from the prior quarter. More information about this data can be found online. (Scheduled for release
September 12.)

Dispersion Statistics on Productivity (DiSP)

The U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics will release a new version of the experimental
data product, Dispersion Statistics on Productivity (DiSP, www.census.gov/disp). DiSP provides information on the
within-industry dispersion in productivity at the 4-digit NAICS level for the manufacturing sector. The new version of
the DiSP data covers years 1987 to 2021. (Scheduled for release September 12.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

                                                                                                       Page 4 of 7
                                    TIP SHEET NUMBER 16 AUGUST 9, 2024

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. BTOS
experimental data products are representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding farms.
The data allow greater insight into the state of the economy by providing continuous, timely information for key
economic measures. Data are released biweekly and are available by sector, state, employment size, and the 25
most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Additional details on artificial intelligence use and types used were
added for one cycle and released March 28, 2024. Because of the change in sample composition, BTOS data from
before September 11, 2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional and national levels and by industry sector
at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released August 14 and will include July 2024 data. Business
Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (census.gov).

Facts for Features

Hispanic Heritage Month: 2024

During this month-long observance, our nation celebrates the culture and traditions of U.S. residents who trace their
roots to Spain, Mexico and the Spanish-speaking nations of Central America, South America and the Caribbean.
The Census Bureau joins in the celebration with this fact sheet presenting a range of updated statistics describing
the demographic state of the nation's Hispanic population. (Schedule for release August 15.)

Recently Released

(Released since July 26, 2024)

Census Bureau Announces New Chair and Five New Members to Census Scientific Advisory Committee

August 8 The U.S. Census Bureau has appointed five new members to its Census Scientific Advisory Committee
(CSAC). The committee provides advice and recommendations on the design and implementation of Census
Bureau programs and surveys. New members will serve a 3-year term.

Census Bureau to Meet with Stakeholders on Disability Data Needs

July 31 The U.S. Census Bureau announced plans to meet with disability community stakeholders September 30 in
the Washington, D.C. metro area to better understand challenges in data availability and access for their
community. In February, Census Bureau Director Robert Santos announced initial plans for this meeting based on
feedback in response to a Federal Register notice outlining proposed changes to the American Community Survey
(ACS). An overall theme in the more than 12,000 comments was a desire for more comprehensive engagement.
Santos also announced that, based on the feedback, there would be no changes to the disability questions for the
2025 ACS.

2020 Census

Census Privacy Protected Microdata File (PPMF)

August 5 The PPMF provides the complete set of privacy-protected records used to create the Redistricting Data
Summary File (P.L. 94-171), Demographic Profile and the Demographic and Housing Characteristic File (DHC).
The PPMF consists of separate files for people and housing units. The files include geocode identifiers down to the
census block level, enabling data users to generate custom tabulations for numerous geographic levels.

Detailed Race and Ethnicity Groups, Tribes and Villages

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 7
                                    TIP SHEET NUMBER 16 AUGUST 9, 2024

August 1 The U.S. Census Bureau released 2020 Census counts of households, along with information on
household type and tenure (whether a home is owned or rented) for 300 detailed race and ethnicity groups and
1,187 American Indian and Alaska Native tribes and villages. The 2020 Census Detailed Demographic and Housing
Characteristics File B (Detailed DHC-B) provides household information based on the race or ethnicity of the
householder (the first adult in a household for whom census responses were provided).

Census Bureau Announces Sites for 2026 Census Test

July 22 The U.S. Census Bureau announced the sites for the 2026 Census Test, the first of two major on-the-
ground tests planned in preparation for the 2030 Census. The 2026 Census Test will evaluate the viability of
innovations and enhancements planned for the 2030 Census, with particular focus on improving the count of hard-
to-count and historically undercounted populations.

Demographic

Demographic Analysis and Population Projection System (DAPPS) Software version 4.0.

July 31 DAPPS is a program designed to help users analyze and produce population projections with ease.

Economic

New Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics Data

August 8 The U.S. Census Bureau released the 2021 Nonemployer Statistics by Demographics (NES-D). New to
this data series is the inclusion of county-level statistics. Also within this release are demographic data by urban
and rural classification, receipt size of firm and legal form of organization plus characteristics of nonemployer
business owners. The NES-D is an annual statistical series that uses existing administrative records and Census
Bureau data to link demographic characteristics to the universe of nonemployer businesses.

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

How to Measure Disasters' Impact on Supply Chains (August 8)

Who Lives in Homes They Own? (August 1)

2024 Paris Olympics: U.S. Population's French Connection (July 31)

Not All Racial and Ethnic Groups Are Aging At National Pace (July 30)

Hometown Heroes: Who Is Representing Team USA at the Summer Games in Paris? (July 26)

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting the Census Bureau's newsworthy statistics that
relate to current events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media
in story mining and producing content for their respective audiences.

2024 Atlantic Hurricane Season: June 1-November 30

Blogs

Census Bureau Data Highlights Vulnerable Populations Exposed to Hurricane Debby August 9

                                                                                                       Page 6 of 7
                                    TIP SHEET NUMBER 16 AUGUST 9, 2024

Written by: John Voorhies, principal economist, Center for Economic Studies Hurricane Debby made landfall as a
Category 1 (74-95 miles per hour) hurricane in the Big Bend region of Florida at 7 a.m. EDT Monday, August 5, and
is currently moving slowly through Florida and Georgia as a tropical storm. Debby has already produced dangerous
winds and storm surge, and it is forecasted to produce near-historic levels of rainfall and flash flooding risk as it
makes its way through Georgia and the Carolinas. What can we say about the people who are being exposed to
these hazards? The Census Bureau's data on the U.S. population puts it in a unique position to analyze the
characteristics of the exposed population in close to real-time.

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources

When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management webpage for demographic and economic data on
impacted areas. Each disaster will include data from our key emergency management tools: OnTheMap for
Emergency Management; Community Resilience Estimates; Census Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition;
and other useful resources.

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community

Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a
variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official
information about America's people, businesses, industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently
being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

Atlanta

Chicago

Denver

Los Angeles

New York

Philadelphia

All Surveys

Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage.

Ce nsus Geocoder

Provides interactive and programmatic (REST) access to users interested in matching addresses to geographic
locations and entities containing those addresses.

Explore Census Data

This new platform on data.census.gov is based on overwhelming feedback to streamline the way you get data and
digital content from Census Bureau.

Small Business Pulse Survey Data

The Small Business Pulse Survey (SBPS) measures the effect of changing business conditions during the
Coronavirus pandemic on our nation's small businesses.

                                                                                                      Page 7 of 7
                                    TIP SHEET NUMBER 16 AUGUST 9, 2024

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities

Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and use Census Bureau statistics. These free
sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate Census Bureau databases and mapping
tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national level. Descriptions of upcoming sessions
are available on our Census Academy webpage. Login details are provided at least one week before a webinar.

Intergenerational Transmission of Employers and Earnings of Young Workers (Tuesday, August 20, 1:30-2:45 p.m.
ET)

,Que debo incluir en mi propuesta de investigacin? (Wednesday, August 21, 1:30-3:00 p.m. ET)

Understanding the Differences in Population Estimates and Projections (Thursday, August 22, 2-3 p.m. ET)

Exploring Census Data Webinar Series: Gems of Census Data - Highlights of Key Programs and Data (Thursday,
August 22, 2-3 p.m. ET)

Introduction to the American Community Survey (Wednesday, August 28, 2-3 p.m. ET)

Decoding Commuting Distance Patterns Using Census Data (Wednesday, September 18, 1:30-2:45 p.m. ET)

2023 American Community Survey 1-year Estimates Pre-Release Webinar (Thursday, September 5, 1-2 p.m. ET)

Cmo solicito acceso a traves del portal estandar de aplicacin (SAP) (Wednesday, September 18, 1:30-3:00 p.m.
ET)

Navigating My Community Explorer (Thursday, September 19, 2-3 p.m. ET)

Archived Training Resources Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library for previously recorded, free
training available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded webinars, tutorials and other
helpful materials.


Load-Date: August 10, 2024


  
