

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 2
     IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica Study Presents Novel Protocol Structure for Achieving Finite-Time
                                      Consensus of Multi-Agent Systems




     IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica Study Presents Novel Protocol
     Structure for Achieving Finite-Time Consensus of Multi-Agent Systems
                                                           PR Newswire
                                              June 14, 2024 Friday 8:39 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 898 words
Dateline: BEIJING, June 14, 2024

Body


PR NewswireBEIJING, June 14, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Achieving finite-time consensus for multi-agent systems is
essential for reliable and efficient autonomous systems. Traditional protocols based on homogeneity theory rely on
a non-smooth saturation function, which makes proving consensus convergence difficult and makes it hard to
predict settling times. In a new study, researchers developed a new protocol structure using a hyperbolic tangent
function, which ensures global/semi-global finite-time consensus and enables exact settling time calculation, paving
the way for improved autonomous systems.Consensus problems, where a group of agents, such as unmanned
vehicles, machines, or robots, need to agree on certain variables only through local communication within
themselves, have attracted considerable attention as a fundamental issue in cooperative control of multi-agent
systems. Simply put, a multi-agent system comprises multiple decision-making agents that interact among
themselves in a common environment to achieve common or conflicting goals depending on the situation.

Depending on whether agents track a predetermined leader, these problems can be classified into leaderless or
leader-following consensus. Researchers have extensively studied both types of problems and developed
consensus protocols. However, most current protocols only provide asymptotic consensus.Some applications
require exact consensus in a limited time or finite-time consensus. Achieving such a consensus results in improved
control accuracy and stability. In practical applications, finite-time consensus requires considerable control effort.
However, there are physical limitations to control effort, which if neglected, can degrade controller performance.
Studies have explored solutions for finite-time control methods subject to constraints, but most methods rely on
homogeneity theory, in which ensuring convergence of consensus is difficult, and an exact settling time is hard to
estimate.Addressing these issues, a team of researchers, including Senior IEEE Member Professor Zongyu Zuo,
Mr. Jingchuan Tan, and Mr. Ruiqi Ke, all from the Seventh Research Division at Beihang University (BUAA), China,
and IEEE Fellow Professor Qing-Long Han from the School of Science at Computing and Engineering
Technologies at Swinburne University of Technology, Australia, developed a novel protocol structure for achieving
global and semi-global finite-time consensus for both leaderless and leader-following multi-agent systems. Their
study waspublished in Volume 11, Issue 6 of theIEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinicain June 2024.The team
was motivated by a fascination with the potential of robotic systems and artificial intelligence to transform our
daily lives and tackle complex societal challenges efficiently and sustainably. Prof. Zuo intuitively explains their
work, "Imagine a group of dancers who need to perform a synchronized routine, without directly seeing each other,
only following cues from those nearby. Our work is akin to creating a set of rules that helps these dancers

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 2
    IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica Study Presents Novel Protocol Structure for Achieving Finite-Time
                                     Consensus of Multi-Agent Systems

synchronize perfectly in a short time, ensuring everyone performs beautifully together even if they have limitations
in how quickly they can move."The protocols presented in the study use a hyperbolic tangent function, instead of
the non-smooth saturation function used in traditional protocols. These protocols guarantee global and semi-global
finite-time consensus for integrator and double integrator type systems, respectively. Moreover, they also allow
explicit calculation of an upper limit for settling time and a user-prescribed bounded control level for closed-loop
systems, making them highly practical and valuable for real-world applications. Additionally, unlike traditional
protocols, the hyperbolic tangent function avoids the need to determine input saturation for each agent, simplifying
the design and stability analysis of the protocols. The researchers demonstrated the effectiveness of the new
protocol structure through illustrative examples for single- and double-integrator multi-agent systems and by
applying it to a practical system with multiple direct current motors.Highlighting the practical applications of this
study, Prof. Zuo says, "These protocols have broad applications, such as autonomous drone fleets for agricultural
or surveillance tasks, coordinated control of robotic arms, and synchronized traffic light systems. Ultimately, our
research could improve the efficiency and reliability of autonomous systems. For example, better traffic
management systems could reduce congestion and pollution, while more coordinated disaster response robots
could save lives during crises."Overall, the innovative protocol structure marks a significant achievement in the field
of consensus problems, leading to enhanced multi-agent autonomous systems.ReferenceTitles of original papers:
Hyperbolic Tangent Function-Based Protocols for Global/Semi-Global Finite-Time Consensus of Multi-Agent
Systems
Journal:IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica
DOI:10.1109/JAS.2024.124485Contact:
Yan Ou
+86 10 82544459
 View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ieeecaa-journal-of-
automatica-sinica-study-presents-novel-protocol-structure-for-achieving-finite-time-consensus-of-multi-agent-
systems-302172186.htmlSOURCE IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
