

                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
          A WARMING PLANET IS GLOBAL, ADAPTATION IS LOCAL & RESILIENCE PEOPLE-SPECIFIC




  A WARMING PLANET IS GLOBAL, ADAPTATION IS LOCAL & RESILIENCE
                        PEOPLE-SPECIFIC
                                                       IPS - Inter Press Service
                                                         July 2, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 IPS - Inter Press Service/Global Information Network

Length: 1103 words
Byline: Sanjay Srivastava - T N Singh - Praveen Kumar - Naina Tanwar
Dateline: BANGKOK, Thailand, Jul 2 2024

Body


The summer of 2024 has shattered heat records, starkly illustrating the harsh realities of our warming planet. In
India alone, the heatwave has claimed over 100 lives and caused more than 40,000 cases of heatstroke in recent
months, according to data from India\x92s Health Ministry. This extreme weather event has further burdened the
poor and vulnerable, exacerbating the social and economic toll of disasters.

\x91A just transition\x92 in climate adaptation

While risk emanating from warming planet is global, adaptation is always local, and resilience is specific to the
people, community and ecosystem. In the vulnerable context, an inclusive approach to climate change adaptation,
emphasizing \x91a just transition\x92 is the way forward. India\x92s National Adaptation Communication to the
United Nations Framework Convention to Climate Change (2023) underscores this strategic focus.

This commitment was further reflected by the significant increase in adaptation finance, with total adaptation
expenditure reaching 5.6 per cent of the GDP in 2021-2022 growing from a share of 3.7 per cent in 2015-16.

Bihar case: Intersection of multi-dimensional poverty and climate risk

When extreme weather events intersect with multi-dimensional poverty, vulnerabilities already on threshold of
tipping points reach closer to their limit. The state of Bihar in India exemplifies this challenge. NITI Aayog\x92s 2021
National Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) baseline report identifies Bihar as having the highest proportion of
people who are multidimensionally poor.

The state also ranks lowest in India\x92s NITI Aayog\x92s SDG Index Report, with over 60 per cent of the districts
classified as highly vulnerable. This disproportionate impact of disasters on the poor is evident in eastern parts of
India, where the lowest MPI values of Bihar coincide with districts which are perennially prone to floods.

Bihar\x92s draft report on climate-resilient and low carbon development pathway (2024) emphasizes the need for
resilient communities. Building resilient communities in vulnerable context requires adopting adaptation
technologies backed by grassroots innovations and risk informed policy interventions.

                                                                               Page 2 of 3
        A WARMING PLANET IS GLOBAL, ADAPTATION IS LOCAL & RESILIENCE PEOPLE-SPECIFIC

Indian Institute of Technology Patna located in Bihar can play a crucial role in closing the state\x92s adaptation gap
with advance technology, leading a just transition in adaptation and fostering collaborative solutions for equitable
climate resilience A just transition approach built on adaptation tech applications in the multi-dimensional poverty
context is key to its successful implementation.

Multi-pronged adaptation strategies

Adaptation strategies demand a convergence of diverse approaches ranging from economic incentives and robust
policy frameworks to locally driven interventions. Understanding the context of risk and vulnerabilities is
fundamental to any policy response. Monitoring and mapping are key to target at risk vulnerable communities to
embark upon \x91a just transition\x92 adaptation policy.

The strategy has to move from sector to nexus approach to capitalize on inter- and cross sectoral linkages and
synergies. This is important to avoid compound and cascading impacts across the sectors when disaster strikes.
Adaptation technologies enable a \x91just transition\x92 pathways while addressing risk mapping and resilience
building and responding to the climate extreme (Figure 1).

Key enablers: An adaptation technology cluster

Adaptation technologies comprise three clusters: (i) science-intensive, (ii) engineering-based and (iii) data science
and risk analytics (Figure 2). Challenges lie in its customization and scaling up in specific context of vulnerabilities.
ESCAP\x92s Risk and Resilience Portal, for example, synthesizes all three clusters and offers a unique capability
to visualize current and future climate scenarios at baseline, 1.5 and 2 degrees.

This foresight is crucial for understanding the evolving risks of floods, droughts, heatwaves and tropical cyclones,
allowing for anticipatory actions for early warning for the changing hazard landscape.

Opportunity for action: Operationalize adaptation technology cluster

At scale, India is operationalizing adaptation technologies to support \x91a just transition\x92 in vulnerable context.
The Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) with an annual budget of $13 billion (2020)
addresses locale specific adaptation priorities.

Under MNREGA, assets are created across the country related to water harvesting, drought relief, flood control
activities, and sanitation. Satellite derived Location based services are being utilized for planning and monitoring of
nearly 7-8 million assets annually using mobile-based geo-tagging. The Online Geo-spatial maps with more than 30
million assets geotagged for all MGNREGA works across the country has been a game changer. Scaling adaptation
technology cluster has helped in policy execution for social empowerment of poor and vulnerable population with
leak-proof public delivery systems. Utilizing the JAM Trinity (Jan Dhan, Aadhaar, Mobile), over $406.9 billion has
been transferred to 11.67 billion beneficiaries. Real-time monitoring via geo-tagging enhances transparency and
financial inclusion of poor and vulnerable through targeted policy schemes.

Further, start-up ecosystems are helping to scale adaptation technologies. For example, there are more than 2800
AgriTech start-ups in India driving innovation and transforming agriculture to adapt to climate risk situation. Having
embraced Internet of Things (IoT) -enabled agricultural practices to now AI-enabled machines and tech, this
burgeoning start-up ecosystem is quite promising. It is important to seize the moment of taking forward
technological innovations to benefit India\x92s most vulnerable.

A dedicated centre for climate change adaptation technology is important to promote research, knowledge
generation and capacity building in India\x92s most vulnerable context with focus on inclusion and climate justice.

Sanjay Srivastava is Chief of Disaster Risk Reduction Section, ESCAP; Professor T N Singh is Director, Indian
Institute of Technology (IIT), Patna/India; Praveen Kumar is CEO (FIST-TBI), IIT Patna/India and Naina Tanwar is
Consultant, Disaster Risk Reduction Section, ESCAP.

IPS UN Bureau

                                                                                Page 3 of 3
         A WARMING PLANET IS GLOBAL, ADAPTATION IS LOCAL & RESILIENCE PEOPLE-SPECIFIC

Follow                                     @IPSNewsUNBureau                                            !function(d,s,id){var
js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createEl
ement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+'://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js';fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document, 'script',
'twitter-wjs');


Load-Date: July 3, 2024


  
