

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                 Amwins and Floodbase Unveil First-of-its-Kind Flood Insurance for U.S. Golf Courses




Amwins and Floodbase Unveil First-of-its-Kind Flood Insurance for U.S. Golf
                               Courses
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           August 13, 2024 Tuesday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 812 words
Dateline: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Aug. 13, 2024

Body


PR NewswireThe "Tees-to-Green"flood program leverages Floodbase'sadvanced AI monitoring technology
toprovide comprehensive flood coverage for business interruption and damages to the golf
courseitself.CHARLOTTE, N.C., Aug. 13, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Today,Amwins, a leading distributor of specialty
insurance products and services, announced the launch of their "Tees-to-Green" flood insurance program powered
by Floodbase and backed by "A" rated carriers designed to reimburse U.S. golf courses for lost revenue and repair
costs incurred when courses are flooded.

 The first of its kind program fills a significant gap in flood coverage available to courses or golfing events. Golf
courses are often built on land prone to flooding. Yet, resorts and courses generally only carry flood insurance for
physical assets like golf carts, club houses, maintenance sheds, and equipment. Damage to the course itself and
business interruption due to downtime are almost always excluded from current options on the market, which
dramatically increases the cost of flood-related closures. If the course is unplayable for days, weeks, or even
longer, lost revenue can include green fees and concessions, hotel reservations, restaurant patrons, and other
forms of significant income."The golf industry has always been very vulnerable to flooding. As the risk of flooding
grows, courses need more options," says Alex Kaplan, Executive Vice President for Alternative Risk at Amwins. "By
partnering with Floodbase, we unlock a tremendous opportunity by enabling products that pay out based on the
magnitude of flooding. Amwins has a track record of introducing advanced parametric products that address
uncovered risks, and we are excited to make Tees-to-Green available to select distribution partners before making
it generally available."Amwins' new and exclusive "Tees-to-Green" flood insurance coverage is possible because of
satellite technology invented by Floodbase.Floodbase, a leading AI flood company founded in collaboration with
Google, fuses hydrologic modeling and decades of satellite imagery to monitor flooding and flood severity every
hour across the U.S. Their flood monitoring technology, proven to outperform NOAA1, maps all the flooding over a
golf course going back several decades. The historical data is used to create a transparent policy price and initiates
continuous course monitoring with policies paying out and providing a quick and automatic solution when course
flooding exceeds a predefined magnitude. This innovative approach eliminates the traditional claims process,
sublimits, and exclusions. This technology can also provide a customflood impact scoreof any course."Flooding is
themost common and costlyweather-related disaster in the U.S.", said Bessie Schwarz, chief executive officer at
Floodbase. "The 'Tees-to-Green' program addresses a critical pain point for golf course operators, saving flood-
impacted courses significant money and speeding recovery. Importantly, it demonstrates the private sector's ability
to alleviate public sector recovery costs amidincreasing billion-dollar disasters."To inquire about purchasing

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
              Amwins and Floodbase Unveil First-of-its-Kind Flood Insurance for U.S. Golf Courses

Amwins' "Tees-to-Green" coverage for your golf course or clients, or to receive a custom risk assessment of your
course, please reach out to Amwins' Executive Vice President of Alternative Risk,Alex Kaplan. To learn more about
Amwins' parametric capabilities, visitamwins.com/parametric.About AmwinsAmwins is the largest independent
wholesale distributor of specialty insurance products in the U.S. dedicated to serving retail insurance agents by
providing property and casualty products, specialty group benefit products, and administrative services. Based in
Charlotte, N.C., the company operates through more than 155 offices globally and handles premium placements in
excess of $33 billion annually. For more information, visitamwins.com.About FloodbaseFloodbaseis an end-to-end
platform for parametric flood insurance. Built on nearly a decade of groundbreaking science, our solution
continuously monitors flooding worldwide. Top re/insurers use Floodbase to cover large corporate and public sector
clients against previously uninsurable economic loss from flooding. Floodbase is also used by FEMA, USAID, the
UN, The New York Times and others to identify and more rapidly respond to floods.1 J. Frame, T. Nair, V. Sunkara,
P. Popien, S. Chakrabarti, T. Anderson, N. Leach, C. Doyle, M. Thomas, B. Tellman. 2024, Rapid inundation
mapping using the US National Water Model, satellite observations, and a convolutional neural network, Manuscript
submitted for publication.Amwins
Lisa Kuszmar
Telephone: 704.749.2780
Email: View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/amwins-and-
floodbase-unveil-first-of-its-kind-flood-insurance-for-us-golf-courses-302220308.htmlSOURCE Amwins


Load-Date: August 13, 2024


  
