

                                                                                                           Page 1 of 2
                                             JUNE MONTHLY ROUNDUP




                                      JUNE MONTHLY ROUNDUP
                                                  States News Service
                                                July 11, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 650 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the office of Maryland Rep. John P. Sarbanes:

Dear Friend,

I hope you and your family had a safe and happy Independence Day holiday.

Eleven weeks after the tragic collapse of the Francis Scott Key Bridge, the Port of Baltimore officially reopened to
global commerce on June 12. We owe our gratitude to all those who worked around-the-clock to clear more than
50,000 tons of debris from the Patapsco River, and without whose dedication, this important step in the ongoing
effort to restore full operations at the Port would not have been possible.

Recently, President Biden sent a supplemental funding request to Congress for emergency disaster relief to cover
the total cost of rebuilding the bridge. The bipartisan Maryland delegation continues to work in lockstep and with our
federal, state and local partners to pass this critical legislation.

At the same time, I was proud to celebrate other important investments in Maryland priorities throughout June.

Ellicott City North Tunnel Project Groundbreaking

I was pleased to attend the groundbreaking of theNorth Tunnel project, an integral part of Howard County's Safe
and Sound flood mitigation plan in response to the devastating floods that the Old Ellicott City community
experienced between 2016 and 2018.

When complete, the stormwater conveyance project one of the largest public works initiatives in Howard County's
history will reduce the risk of flash floods by capturing stormwater at the West End of Old Ellicott City and diverting it
underground, away from Main Street. I am inspired by the resilience of the Old Ellicott City community and
commitment of all stakeholders to ensuring a vibrant future for this historic district for years to come.

Federal Transportation Grants for Improvements in Annapolis and the Hanover Street Corridor

The Maryland delegation also worked to deliver funding, made available through the bipartisan Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA), for critical road safety improvements and infrastructure revitalization in our region.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                                            JUNE MONTHLY ROUNDUP

The City of Annapolis will receive $620,000 from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to implement an
Intelligent Transportation System that will use Artificial Intelligence-based traffic signal technology to help prevent
car accidents and ensure the safety of all road users, regardless of their chosen mode of transportation.

DOT also awarded over $15 million to the City of Baltimore for the Hanover Street Corridor Revitalization project.
This federal investment will support planning for infrastructure improvements that will better connect Anne Arundel
County, South Baltimore and surrounding communities.

Federal-State Partnership to Advance Offshore Wind

The State of Maryland and the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management recently entered into a memorandum of
understandingto advance offshore wind projects in the Central Atlantic. At the signing ceremony, I underscored the
partnership's importance to accelerating the renewable energy transition and achieving Maryland's bold climate
goals. This collaboration between the Biden-Harris Administration and Governor Wes Moore's Administration will
help spur economic growth while also creating good paying clean energy jobs, bringing us another step closer to
ensuring a greener, more sustainable future for Maryland.

MD-03's Next Generation of Leaders in the Armed Services

Each year, I am honored to nominate residents of Maryland's Third District for admission to the United States
service academies. I extend my congratulations to this next class of students and look forward to seeing all they will
accomplish in the future.

If you or someone you know is applying for a service academy nomination, please note that the deadline to submit
materials to my office is 11:59 p.m. on Friday, August 30, 2024.

Sincerely,

Congressman John Sarbanes

Maryland's Third Congressional District


Load-Date: July 13, 2024


  
