

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 7
                                  Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 12 - June 14, 2024




                   Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 12 - June 14, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            June 18, 2024 Tuesday 2:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 2974 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(TNSres) -- The U.S. Census Bureau issued the following tip sheet on June 14, 2024:

***

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

Community Resilience Estimates: Summer Rankings

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new tables for its Community Resilience Estimates (CRE) Summer Rankings
data product. These tables will highlight the most socially vulnerable counties and neighborhoods in the country to
hurricanes, wildfires, and strong winds. (Scheduled for release July 9.)

2020 Census

2023 Planning Database and New 2020 Census Operational Data

The U.S. Census Bureau will release the 2023 Planning Database (PDB), which includes new 2020 Census
operational data on response rates, return rates and in-processing counts. The 2023 PDB contains a selection of
housing, demographic, socioeconomic and operational data for block groups and census tracts from the 2020
Census Redistricting Data (Public Law 94-171) Summary File, 2020 Census Demographic and Housing
Characteristics File and 2017-2021 American Community Survey 5-year estimates. (Scheduled for release July 9.)

American Community Survey

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 7
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 12 - June 14, 2024

Computer and Internet Use Report: 2021

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new report which looks at access to computers and broadband internet
subscriptions nationwide in 2021. Using data from the American Community Survey, this report examines key
trends and characteristics in terms of demographic, social and geographic characteristics across the digital divide
between those who have and those who lack access to computers and the internet. (Scheduled for release on June
18.)

Demographic

Vintage 2023 Population Estimates for the Nation, States, Metropolitan and Micropolitan Statistical Areas, and
Counties by Age, Sex, Race and Hispanic Origin and for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and its Municipios by
Age and Sex

The U.S. Census Bureau will release Vintage 2023 population estimates by demographic characteristics June 27.
Internet tables and detailed downloadable files will show annual population estimates for the nation, states,
metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas, and counties by age, sex, race and Hispanic origin, and for the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and its municipios by age and sex between April 1, 2020, and July 1, 2023.
(Scheduled for embargo starting June 25 and for public release June 27.)

Profile of Older Adults by Poverty Status: 2021

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a new report which offers a profile of adults aged 65 and over by poverty
status. Using data from the Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP), this report examines the
sociodemographic characteristics, living arrangements, program participation, and net worth of older adults by
poverty status. (Scheduled for release in June.)

Survey of Income and Program Participation 2023 Data Available

The U.S. Census Bureau will release data from the 2023 Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP). The
SIPP is a longitudinal survey that provides comprehensive information about income and assistance program
participation of individuals and households in the United States. The survey collects data and measures change in
characteristics like economic well-being, family dynamics, education, assets, health insurance, child care and food
security. (Scheduled for release July 11.)

Household Pulse Survey

The experimental Household Pulse Survey (HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4.1 topics include employment status, spending, food security, housing, health, mental health, natural
disasters, inflation and spending, vaccine receipt, COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment, disability, income, social
connection, child care arrangements, and a section on participation with the arts. Data collection for phase 4.1
began April 2, with data dissemination, including detailed data tables, an interactive data tool, and public-use files,
on a monthly basis. (Scheduled for release July 11 and August 8.)

Economic

2023 Annual Integrated Economic Survey Due

The due date for the 2023 Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) has officially passed. Businesses can report
by logging on to the respondent portal and accessing their survey card. For more information or assistance with
completing this survey, visit www.census.gov/aies/information or call the AIES customer help line at 1-800-681-
3012, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-8 p.m. ET.

Using Public Data to Make Decisions

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 7
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 12 - June 14, 2024

Join us for the Exploring Census Data webinar series on Using Public Data to Make Decisions. Census Bureau
subject matter experts will present data available from public sector programs and the American Community
Survey. You will learn about the different types of business and demographic data available and how they can help
guide many decisions. Discover statistics available on public employment, payroll, state and local government
finances, demographic and other characteristics, and learn about data access and utilization. Engage with our
experts via live chat and the Q&A segment. This webinar is part 3 of 6 in a series to help data users explore and
use Census Bureau data related to people, places, and the economy. (Scheduled for June 20.)

New Post-Secondary Employment Outcomes (PSEO) Data

The U.S. Census Bureau will release new data on outcomes of graduates. PSEO tabulations show earnings and
employment outcomes for graduates of U.S. post-secondary institutions and are generated by linking graduate
transcript records to Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics wage data. This offers prospective students a
comprehensive assessment tool to find out how much they could potentially earn by degree and institution. The
Census Bureau conducts the PSEO in cooperation with higher education institutional systems to examine college
degree attainment and graduate earnings. (Scheduled for release June 27.)

2022 County Business Patterns

The Census Bureau will release County Business Patterns (CBP). The upcoming annual series release provides
2022 subnational economic data by industry (2- through 6- digit NAICS). These data include detailed information on
the number of establishments, employment during the week including March 12, and first quarter and annual payroll
at the national, state, metropolitan/micropolitan statistical area, combined statistical area, county and congressional
district levels for nearly 1,000 NAICS industries. Data for Puerto Rico and the Island Areas are also available at the
state- and county-equivalent levels. (Scheduled for release June 27.)

"Win Grants with LODES Data: Success Stories and Shortcuts from Texas' Largest Community College System?"

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership, Council for Community and
Economic Research (C2ER) and Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute welcomes Camille Gilchriest as she
presents, "Win Grants with LODES Data: Success Stories and Shortcuts from Texas' Largest Community College
System." In this presentation, the Dallas College Labor Market Intelligence Center (LMIC) highlights case studies
that showcase how to utilize the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics Origin-Destination Employment
Statistics (LODES) data to support a variety of economic development activities, such as campus planning,
relationship building with external partners, and grant development from project design to post-award
implementation. (Scheduled for July 10.)

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. BTOS
experimental data products are representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding farms.
The data allow greater insight into the state of the economy by providing continuous, timely information for key
economic measures. Data are released biweekly and are available by sector, state, employment size, and the 25
most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Additional details on artificial intelligence use and types used were
added for one cycle and released March 28, 2024. Because of the change in sample composition, BTOS data from
before September 11, 2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

Business Formation Statistics (BFS) provide timely, high-frequency data on business applications and employer
business formations monthly. The data are available at the state, regional, and national levels and by industry
sector at the national level. The next monthly BFS will be released June 12 and will include May 2024 data.
Business Formation Statistics - Release Schedule (census.gov).

Stats for Stories

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 7
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 12 - June 14, 2024

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting U.S. Census Bureau statistics that relate to current
events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media in story mining
and producing content for their respective audiences.

* 2024 Atlantic Hurricane Season: June 1-November 30

________________________________________

Recently Released

(Released since May 31, 2024)

Demographic

Current Population Survey Modernization Efforts Webinar Series: Annual Social and Economic Supplement -- June
13

The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled to hold a webinar on June 13 at 2 p.m. ET to share updates and lay the
groundwork for improvements to the Annual Social and Economic Supplement (ASEC) of the Current Population
Survey (CPS). This is the second in a series of webinars on CPS modernization efforts. The upcoming webinar will
discuss planned innovations to the ASEC. The presentation will also include a timeline for these proposed
enhancements. The Census Bureau will continue to engage stakeholders and provide updates as CPS
modernization efforts move forward. (Event scheduled for June 13.)

Spouses in Opposite-Sex and Same-Sex Married Couples and Their Households: 2022 --

June 11

The U.S. Census Bureau released a new American Community Survey brief that paints a national portrait of
spouses in same-sex married couples. The report provides nationally representative estimates of these spouses
and their households compared with those in opposite-sex couples. Estimates are presented separately for men
and women to examine whether the experiences and living arrangements of same-sex spouses are consistent
across sex.

Economic

Quarterly Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenues: 1st Quarter 2024 -- June 13

The Census Bureau released a summary of quarterly estimates of state and local government tax revenue at the
national level as well as detailed tax revenue data for individual states. This report produces two income and sales
data tables and one table for tax collections by state. More information about this release is available in the 2024
Quarterly Summary of State and Local Tax Revenue tables at census.gov.

Cannabis Excise Sales Tax Collections: 1st Quarter 2024 -- June 13

The U.S. Census Bureau released experimental data and an updated data visualization featuring quarterly tax
collections at the state level for cannabis sales. Data for cannabis sales taxes were reported in the Quarterly
Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenue and were first released for the second quarter of 2023. The
data visualization provides cannabis revenue as a percent of the states total tax revenue where available and
percent change from the prior quarter. More information about this data can be found online.

"How the COVID-19 Pandemic Prompted More People to Change Jobs?" -- June 12

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership, in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute, welcomed Hubert
Janicki as he presented, "How the COVID-19 Pandemic Prompted More People to Change Jobs." New Census
Bureau statistics from the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) shows to what extent U.S. workers

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 7
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 12 - June 14, 2024

changed jobs across industries during and after the pandemic emergency was declared over in 2023. LEHD's Job-
to-Job Flows (J2J) data product now includes an experimental research release of job flow counts across industries
from the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) down to a more detailed subsector level (3-digit
NAICS).

2022 Economic Census for American Samoa, Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands --
June 6

The U.S. Census Bureau released data for American Samoa, Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands from the 2022 Economic Census in June. The economic census is the U.S. government's official
five-year measure of businesses in the United States and U.S. Island Areas. It is the only source of comprehensive,
comparable data for the Island Areas at a geographic level similar to U.S. counties. The economic census is the
major source of statistics about the structure and functioning of the economies of each Island Area, serving as part
of the framework for the national accounts of the Island Areas.

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

* Bracing for an Active 2024 Hurricane Season (June 12)

* Over Half of Spouses in Same-Sex Marriages Tied the Knot After 2014 (June 11)

* Exploring Two "First Look" Economic Datasets (June 6)

* How Many Young and Older Adults Lived Alone? (May 30)

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting the Census Bureau's newsworthy statistics that
relate to current events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media
in story mining and producing content for their respective audiences.

* LGBTQIA+ Pride Month: June 2024

* Juneteenth (1865): June 19, 2024

Blogs

Emergency Management: How Our Data Help Communities in Times of Need -- June 5

Written by: Dr. Ron Jarmin, Deputy Director -- As the nation prepares for the 2024 hurricane season, the U.S.
Census Bureau is ready to provide critical information for all stages of disaster management. This year, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) National Weather Service forecasters at the Climate
Prediction Center predict above-normal hurricane activity in the Atlantic basin.

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources

When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management webpage for demographic and economic data on
impacted areas. Each disaster will include data from our key emergency management tools: OnTheMap for
Emergency Management; Community Resilience Estimates; Census Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition;
and other useful resources.

                                                                                                      Page 6 of 7
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 12 - June 14, 2024

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community

Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a
variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official
information about America's people, businesses, industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently
being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

* Atlanta

* Chicago

* Denver

* Los Angeles

* New York

* Philadelphia

* All Surveys

Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage.

2020 Census Address Count Listing Files Viewer

This application was developed to supplement the Address Count Listing files. The files include housing unit and
group quarters counts, by census block.

Community Resilience Estimates (CRE)

This interactive treemap shows all the counties in the United States arranged by region and sized according to
population or SNAP participation.

Justice Outcomes Explorer Data Tool

Justice Outcomes Explorer (JOE) data measure the economic and health outcomes of people who have been
involved with the criminal justice system.

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities

Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and use Census Bureau statistics. These free
sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate Census Bureau databases and mapping
tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national level. Descriptions of upcoming sessions
are available on our Census Academy webpage. Login details are provided at least one week before a webinar.

* Business Trends and Outlook Survey: High-frequency Economic Data (Tuesday, June 18, 2-3 p.m. ET)

* Using Public Data to Make Decisions (Thursday, June 20, 2-3 p.m. ET)

* Navigating Geographic Complexities on data.census.gov (Tuesday, June 25, 2-3 p.m. ET)

* Exploring Governments Data Using data.census.gov (Thursday, July 11, 2-3 p.m. ET)

                                                                                                   Page 7 of 7
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 12 - June 14, 2024

* Exploring Census Data Webinar Series: Services in the U.S. (Thursday, July 25, 2-3 p.m. ET)

* Understanding the Differences Between Statistics (Thursday, July 25, 2-3 p.m. ET)

Archived Training Resources -- Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library for previously recorded,
free training available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded webinars, tutorials and
other helpful materials.

***

Original text and links presented by source here: https://www.census.gov/newsroom/tip-sheets/2024/tp24-12.html

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8681433 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: June 18, 2024


  
