

                                                                                                Page 1 of 3
     Alight Releases 2024 Global Impact Report Highlighting ESG Performance and Progress -- Report unveils
                           insights on Alight 's formalized ESG strategy -- --Results....




 Alight Releases 2024 Global Impact Report Highlighting ESG Performance
and Progress; -- Report unveils insights on Alight's formalized ESG strategy
  --; --Results of a double materiality assessment will inform Alight's ESG
 strategic roadmap, serving as a blueprint for the company's initiatives and
                          actions toward progress --
                                                  Business Wire
                                      June 6, 2024 Thursday 12:35 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 909 words
Dateline: LINCOLNSHIRE, Ill.

Body


Alight, Inc. (NYSE: ALIT), a leading cloud-based human capital and technology services provider, today published
its 2024 Global Impact Report showcasing the company's 2023 progress and future plans across its key
environmental, social and governance (ESG) focus areas.

"At Alight, we are committed to harnessing the strategy around our Alight Worklife® platform, services and
processes to generate long-term social benefits and deliver a positive, personalized impact for the clients,
employees and families we serve," said Stephan Scholl, CEO at Alight. "Our 2024 Global Impact Report highlights
the meaningful steps we have taken over the past year to champion people, drive social innovation and uphold
responsible business practices -all while working towards a more sustainable future."

In 2023, Alight formalized its robust ESG strategy, aligning with the company's purpose and values. This strategy
centers on three pillars: championing people, social innovation and responsible business practices, and serves as
the foundation for creating positive impact.

Alight's 2023 ESG accomplishments include:

Championing People

Alight took significant steps to support the wellbeing and development of its colleagues, including publishing a
Human Rights Policy and enhancing the company's continuous performance management program. Alight also
developed its first Diversity Report and expanded its colleague recognition program. Additionally, the company
increased access and resources on the Alight Worklife platform for all colleagues to help support mental, physical,
financial and social health.

Social Innovation

                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
     Alight Releases 2024 Global Impact Report Highlighting ESG Performance and Progress -- Report unveils
                           insights on Alight 's formalized ESG strategy -- --Results....

Alight continued to develop innovative solutions that address social determinants of health through expanded
analytics and spearheaded the launch of the Portability Services Network (PSN) to improve retirement outcomes by
promoting auto portability within the U.S. retirement system.

Responsible Business Practices

Alight made significant progress in its commitment to responsible business practices, including signing the Science
Based Targets initiative commitment letter and setting a goal to utilize 100% renewable electricity within its facilities
by 2032. Additionally, Alight formalized its artificial intelligence (AI) policy and oversight framework to ensure
ethical and secure use of technology.

Alight is committed to upholding the highest standard of data security and privacy as well as ensuring resilience
through the implementation of robust data security, enterprise risk management, business continuity and disaster
recovery programs. By aligning with industry standards and rigorously testing formal processes, Alight has taken
steps to strengthen sustainability, ethical technology utilization, data security and resilience to navigate challenges
effectively.

Alight's ESG strategic roadmap

In 2024, Alight conducted a double materiality assessment to pinpoint the most important ESG factors to both
internal and external stakeholders. This comprehensive process tracked changes in ESG priorities since the 2021
assessment and highlighted insights into the relative significance of each ESG factor and the level of alignment
between stakeholder groups.

Looking ahead, Alight intends to integrate the results from the 2024 materiality assessment into its ESG strategic
roadmap, which serves as a blueprint for the company's initiatives and actions toward progress. The material topics
identified in the assessment will remain integral components of Alight's annual Global Impact Report.

Accordingly, Alight's ESG strategy moving forward is focused on six key areas: empowering healthy minds, bodies,
wallets and lives; increasing diversity and inclusion; investing in colleague development; integrating sustainable
innovation; demonstrating ethical and secure practices; and reducing environmental impact.

"Our Global Impact Report reflects Alight's unwavering commitment to creating long-term value for our colleagues,
clients and communities," said Scholl. "As we move forward, we will continue to leverage our expertise and
innovative capabilities to drive positive change and make a meaningful difference in the lives of those we serve."

The 2024 Global Impact Report, prepared according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and indexed to
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) guidance, also identifies nine United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that align with
Alight's business priorities.

To access the full 2024 Global Impact Report and learn more about Alight's ESG approach, visit
https://www.alight.com/about/esg

About Alight Solutions

Alight is a leading cloud-based human capital technology and services provider that powers confident health,
wealth, and wellbeing decisions for 36 million people and dependents. Our Alight Worklife® platform combines data
and analytics with a simple, seamless user experience. Supported by our global delivery capabilities, Alight Worklife
is transforming the employee experience for people around the world. With personalized, data-driven health,
wealth, pay, and wellbeing insights, Alight brings people the security of better outcomes and peace of mind
throughout life's big moments and most important decisions. Learn how Alight unlocks growth for organizations of
all sizes at alight.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240606532528/en/

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
    Alight Releases 2024 Global Impact Report Highlighting ESG Performance and Progress -- Report unveils
                          insights on Alight 's formalized ESG strategy -- --Results....



CONTACT: Investor Contact:
Jeremy Cohen

Investor.Relations@alight.com Media Contact:
Mariana Fischbach

mariana.fischbach@alight.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: June 6, 2024


  
