

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 2
                             Thomas R. Weaver's sci-fi thriller 'Artificial Wisdom' is a smash hit!




        Thomas R. Weaver's sci-fi thriller 'Artificial Wisdom' is a smash hit!
                                                     Massachusetts Newswire
                                                     July 4, 2024 6:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Massachusetts Newswire, distributed by Contify.com All Rights Reserved




Length: 321 words
Byline: Terry Windall -

Body


'Artificial Wisdom' is a science fiction thriller set in the not-so-distant future of 2050

SURREY, U.K. /Massachusetts Newswire - National News/ - Chainmaker Press novel "Artificial Wisdom" (ISBN
978-1739434366) is selling out internationally. Originally released in the UK, "Artificial Wisdom" by Thomas R.
Weaver recently celebrated its US debut this spring. The third print has once again sold out with a fourth print on
the way. The Amazon bestselling novel is topping charts for the publisher after significant interest on TikTok, and
has over 1.1K reviews on Goodreads.

Artificial Wisdom is a science fiction thriller set in the not-so-distant future of 2050. A heat wave has killed 400
million people in the Persian Gulf. But was the disaster natural? Or was it genocide? While a former US President
campaigns against the world's first AI politician, someone is trying to sway the outcome of the election. Journalist
Marcus Tully must convince the world to face the truth and make hard choices about the future of the species. But
will humanity ultimately choose salvation over freedom, whatever the cost?

Foreword called the novel, "a timely science fiction novel in which the truth is difficult to find and easy to
manipulate."

Lovereading called the writing "clipped, to the point, and immediately arresting - this takes a page-turning murder
mystery into fresh territory, with a future-world fans of political sci-fi will be totally drawn into, and of-the-moment
ethical issues everyone can relate to."

Best Thriller Books called the book a "jaw-dropping debut that feels like a blaring wake-up call - thinking of the
future as Weaver writes it fills me with awe as much as dread."

Exciting new titles under the Chainmaker Press label on their way in the near future. The fourth print of "Artificial
Wisdom" will be available where all books are sold.

MEDIA ONLY CONTACT:

Ed Bajek

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
                          Thomas R. Weaver's sci-fi thriller 'Artificial Wisdom' is a smash hit!

1 (201) 560-3831

Ed@bajekpublisherservices.com


Load-Date: July 5, 2024


  
