

                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
   CME Group and Google Cloud Announce New Chicago Area Private Cloud Region and Co-location Facility for
                                        CME Group's Markets




  CME Group and Google Cloud Announce New Chicago Area Private Cloud
         Region and Co-location Facility for CME Group's Markets
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           June 26, 2024 Wednesday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1165 words
Dateline: CHICAGO and SUNNYVALE, Calif., June 26, 2024

Body


PR NewswireKey milestone paves the way for CME Group to migrate to Google Cloud's industry-first specialized
platform for capital marketsCHICAGO and SUNNYVALE, Calif., June 26, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Reaching a
significant milestone in the companies' transformational partnership, CME Group and Google Cloud today
announced plans to build a new private Google Cloud region, and a co-location facility, in Aurora, Illinois.The
private Google Cloud region will host Google Cloud's new, industry-first specialized platform designed to support
global trading of CME Group's futures and options markets, and offer derivatives traders cloud-based, ultra-low-
latency networking, and high-performance computing.Locating the platform in the new private Google Cloud region
in the Chicago area will allow CME Group's clients to utilize existing connectivity options and access points to other
global markets. Additionally, CME Group's clients can choose between self-managed infrastructure in the co-
location facility or Google Cloud's specialized infrastructure-as-a-service offering, both with equal network latency to
the exchange.The new specialized platform will enable a number of benefits for CME Group's clients, including
expanded flexibility, strengthened operational efficiencies, and increased access to cloud services, and artificial
intelligence (AI) capabilities, all of which will deepen the value proposition for market users around the globe. For
example, CME Group clients will be enabled to rapidly experiment, test, and deploy new strategies without
impacting their production trading environments."This is a significant step forward in our partnership with Google
Cloud that is revolutionizing our industry," said CME Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Duffy.

"Located within close proximity to our current data center campus, and with disaster recovery facilities in Dallas,
Texas, Google Cloud's new specialized platform will extend the benefits we can provide to our clients through next-
generation cloud technology, expanded access and efficiencies, a broader range of customized connectivity
options, and faster product development, with minimal disruption to their current operations." In addition to the
capabilities offered through the new platform, market participants that migrate to the cloud can benefit from Google
Cloud's global network and innovative AI and data capabilities. With Google Cloud's data cloud products like
BigQuery and AlloyDB, and its AI and machine learning platform, Vertex AI, financial institutions will be able to
experiment with new modeling techniques such as time-series forecasting and simplify access to insights with
generative AI. All of this is backed by Google Cloud's expanding number of regions, planet-scale network, and AI-
powered security."Our latest milestone with CME Group builds on our shared goal to accelerate CME's move to the
cloud and innovate capital markets infrastructure worldwide," said Thomas Kurian, CEO, Google Cloud. "Through
our collaboration, we're harnessing the best of cloud computing, data analytics, and AI, while respecting the

                                                                                           Page 2 of 2
  CME Group and Google Cloud Announce New Chicago Area Private Cloud Region and Co-location Facility for
                                       CME Group's Markets

existing custom hardware requirements of market participants to bring low latency, deterministic, and scalable
trading environments to CME Group customers and the broader financial markets."Development of the specialized
platform is underway, starting with key capabilities available for customer testing in the Dallas Google Cloud region,
which will eventually become the disaster recovery facility. Construction of the private Google Cloud region in
Aurora is scheduled to begin this year. CME Group expects to provide clients with at least 18 months advance
notice before CME Group markets move to the new platform. CME Group cash markets will continue to operate in
their current facilities as they do today.Since announcing their partnership in 2021, CME Group and Google Cloud
continue to execute on key initiatives, including recent enhancements to CME Group's cloud-based data platform
and migration of critical clearing applications to the cloud. Both firms are focused on delivering significant benefits to
all market participants by expanding access, creating real-time, customer-centric data and analytics capabilities,
bringing new products and services to market, and increasing efficiencies.About CME GroupAs the world's leading
derivatives marketplace, CME Group (www.cmegroup.com) enables clients to trade futures, options, cash and OTC
markets, optimize portfolios, and analyze data – empowering market participants worldwide to efficiently manage
risk and capture opportunities. CME Group exchanges offer the widest range of global benchmark products across
all major asset classes based oninterest rates,equity indexes,foreign exchange,energy,agricultural
productsandmetals. The company offers futures and options on futures trading through theCME Globexplatform,
fixed income trading via BrokerTec and foreign exchange trading on the EBS platform. In addition, it operates one
of the world's leading central counterparty clearing providers, CME Clearing. CME Group, the Globe logo, CME,
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Globex, and E-mini are trademarks of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. CBOT and
Chicago Board of Trade are trademarks of Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. NYMEX, New York
Mercantile Exchange and ClearPort are trademarks of New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. COMEX is a trademark
of Commodity Exchange, Inc. BrokerTec is a trademark of BrokerTec Americas LLC and EBS is a trademark of
EBS Group LTD. The S&P 500 Index is a product of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC ("S&P DJI"). "S&P®", "S&P
500®", "SPY®", "SPX®", US 500 and The 500 are trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC; Dow
Jones®, DJIA® and Dow Jones Industrial Average are service and/or trademarks of Dow Jones Trademark
Holdings LLC. These trademarks have been licensed for use by Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. Futures
contracts based on the S&P 500 Index are not sponsored, endorsed, marketed, or promoted by S&P DJI, and S&P
DJI makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in such products. All other trademarks are the
property of their respective owners.About Google CloudGoogle Cloud is the new way to the cloud, providing AI,
infrastructure, developer, data, security, and collaboration tools built for today and tomorrow. Google Cloud offers a
powerful, fully integrated and optimized AI stack with its own planet-scale infrastructure, custom-built chips,
generative AI models and development platform, as well as AI-powered applications, to help organizations
transform. Customers in more than 200 countries and territories turn to Google Cloud as their trusted technology
partner.CME-G View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cme-group-and-google-cloud-
announce-new-chicago-area-private-cloud-region-and-co-location-facility-for-cme-groups-markets-
302182615.htmlSOURCE CME Group; Google Cloud


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
