

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 4
                 CISOs and CIOs confront growing data protection challenges in the era of AI and cloud




CISOs and CIOs confront growing data protection challenges in the era of AI
                              and cloud
                                                    Business Wire
                                        July 23, 2024 Tuesday 10:00 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1540 words
Dateline: COPENHAGEN, Denmark

Body

Keepit , a global provider of a comprehensive cloud backup and recovery platform, today released a survey
conducted by Foundry, as well as a study based on in-depth interviews conducted by Keepit. Both reveal critical
gaps in disaster recovery strategies and highlight the pressing need for enhanced data security measures.

In an evolving technological landscape, enterprise IT leaders are grappling with unprecedented challenges in data
protection and governance, driven by the rapid adoption of cloud applications and generative AI.

The CISOs and CIOs interviewed by Keepit for the study: "The great balancing act: Cybersecurity leaders tackle
rising pressures" spoke to the necessity of rising to the challenge by adopting a mindset of continuous
improvement. They are building collaborative best practices, partnering to bring in needed expertise, and investing
in data-centric solutions optimized for security and simplicity.

Data protection struggles amid cloud and AI expansion

Enterprise disaster recovery strategies, traditionally designed for on-premises IT infrastructure, are lagging behind
the surge in cloud application usage and the integration of AI technologies. Foundry's survey: "Can data protection
keep pace with the shifting landscape?" underscores this trend. The respondents of the survey represent IT
decision-makers from companies with over 1,000 global employees. While 70% of respondents report that their
financial applications are covered by data protection strategies, a significant portion of other key systems and
custom applications remain vulnerable.

Survey highlights
    •     Financial systems: 70% are covered by data protection strategies.
    •     E-commerce and HR Management Systems: 50% are covered.
    •     CRM and ERP systems: 48% and 42% respectively.
    •     Critical transaction-based systems, custom applications, and collaboration and productivity tools: Are
          lagging behind with only between a third and a quarter of systems covered.

"Anything related to finance is important, most people will agree. And it's an obvious place to start when you map
your critical systems and data. The survey shows that financial systems are by far the most incorporated in data

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 4
                CISOs and CIOs confront growing data protection challenges in the era of AI and cloud

protection strategies, and when you look at verticals, financial institutions are also a little more mature than others,"
says Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit, an industry professional with a background in advising public and private sector
organizations in cyber security and cyber resilience.

Strategic gaps and vulnerabilities

The survey reveals that only half of the organizations have incorporated cloud-stored SaaS data into their disaster
recovery plans. Another 40% plan to address this gap soon. A decision-maker participating in a recent Keepit CISO
roundtable remarked, "We solved many of these challenges 10 to 15 years ago, but with the move to cloud, it's like
we're starting from scratch again."

The current state of data protection is also seen as a significant barrier to expanding the use of generative AI
technologies.

Strategic gaps:
    •   Critical SaaS data applications: 50% of respondents have included cloud-stored data for critical SaaS
        applications in their disaster recovery plans, and 40% plan to do so.
    •   AI data protection: Nearly all organizations prioritize AI data protection, with 52% already implementing
        tools for chatbots and AI platforms and 43% considering them.

"Good data protection is essentially 'data classification plus good recovery capabilities': If you understand your data,
and can recover uncorrupted versions of it fast, you have a solid foundation to ensure business continuity,
compliance and recovery. But this is easier said than done: The complexity of implementing new initiatives, such as
governance over data used by large language models (LLMs), and the need to balance conflicting IT demands,
pose additional challenges for any industry," adds Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit.

Compliance and future-proofing

Compliance is a top concern for 73% of survey respondents heading into 2024, with data governance (53%) and
enterprise backup and recovery (45%) also ranking high. Regulatory scrutiny is increasing globally, with mandates
from agencies like the SEC in the US and the upcoming Digital Operational Resiliency Act (DORA) in the EU.

Compliance challenges:
    •   Regulatory mandates: New cybersecurity resilience requirements.
    •   Cybersecurity risks: Continued threats, notably ransomware.

"Cyber strategy must be perfectly aligned with the business to effectively support it. The more global an
organization becomes, the more difficult this is - to align access, and comply with regulations. This is backed up in
our study, where CISOs emphasized the need for a unified risk management strategy that aligns with regional
regulatory requirements," said Kim Larsen.

Organizational maturity and risk management

Keepit's interviews with over 30 CISOs and CIOs reveal the importance of organizational maturity in handling data
security. The variability in CISOs' backgrounds and responsibilities was cited as a reason for the slow
implementation of data-focused innovations.

Key findings:
    •   Cloud flexibility: 80% of organizations adopt a "cloud smart" approach, introducing new security and
        compliance challenges.
    •   Regulatory and expertise challenges: The rise of GenAI and the need for specialized knowledge in AI and
        cybersecurity.

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 4
               CISOs and CIOs confront growing data protection challenges in the era of AI and cloud

"One thing stands out: Organizations have very different levels of maturity. A lot of the governance activities are so
obvious, you would think everyone is doing them. But they aren't. Classic difficulties include managing multiple
security vendors, leading to gaps in protection. Another is circumstances - one CISO told us how he had
experienced five major cyber events in the previous year, prompting a complete overhaul of their cyber response
plan," says Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit.

Strategies for success

CISOs and CIOs are adopting continuous improvement mindsets, building collaborative best practices, and
investing in data-centric solutions. Establishing effective data governance frameworks and engaging the board of
directors are seen as crucial steps forward.

Strategic recommendations:
    •   Align with business objectives: Frame cybersecurity in the context of business goals.
    •   Translate technical concepts: Communicate in terms stakeholders understand.
    •   Demonstrate ROI: Highlight cost savings, risk reductions, and business benefits.
    •   Board engagement: Seek feedback and support from the board for cybersecurity initiatives.

"The conclusion is that data protection remains a cornerstone of organizational resilience in the face of growing
technological advancements. As CISOs and CIOs navigate these challenges, their ability to enable and protect
data-driven innovation will define their success. Robust data security and backup strategies are essential for
balancing innovation and protection, ensuring that organizations can thrive in the digital age. Effective
communication of cyber risks to stakeholders and demonstrating the ROI of cybersecurity initiatives are critical,"
ends Kim Larsen.

About Foundry, and IDG, Inc. Company

Foundry has played a key role in every major milestone, announcement, and development in modern technology
since 1964. We engage and activate the world's most influential tech buyers and early adopters via the award-
winning journalism and trusted media brands they've turned to for decades. Our integrated ecosystem of owned
and operated editorial sites, awards, events, and tech communities is engineered to enable global audience
activation through innovative marketing campaigns. Backed by robust audience insights and data from across our
network, Foundry sets the standard for delivering business results to help companies grow.

With 38 offices in markets around the globe, Foundry is a wholly owned subsidiary of International Data Group, Inc .
(IDG), the world's leading tech media, data, research and marketing services company.

To learn more about Foundry, visit foundryco.com .

About CSO:

CSO serves enterprise security decision-makers and users with the critical information they need to stay ahead of
evolving threats and defend against criminal cyberattacks. With incisive content that addresses all security
disciplines, from risk management to network defense to fraud and data loss prevention, CSO offers unparalleled
depth and insight to support key decisions and investments for IT security professionals. www.csoonline.com

About Keepit

Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud. Securing data in a vendor-
independent cloud safeguards essential business applications , boosts cyber resilience, and future-proofs data
protection. Unique, separate, and immutable data storage with no sub-processors ensures compliance with local
regulations and mitigates the impact of ransomware while guaranteeing continuous data access, business

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 4
              CISOs and CIOs confront growing data protection challenges in the era of AI and cloud

continuity, and fast and effective disaster recovery. Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data centers
worldwide, over 10,000 companies trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup and recovery of cloud data.

For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240723567792/en/


CONTACT: RedIron PR for Keepit
Kari Ritacco

kari@redironpr.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 23, 2024


  
