

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
   Veeam Brings Data Resilience to Over 21 Million Microsoft 365 Users with New Microsoft 365 Backup Storage
                        Capabilities for Veeam Data Cloud New Veeam Data Cloud....




  Veeam Brings Data Resilience to Over 21 Million Microsoft 365 Users with
 New Microsoft 365 Backup Storage Capabilities for Veeam Data Cloud; New
  Veeam Data Cloud release delivers the leading Microsoft 365 backup and
    recovery experience as speed and scale meet control and flexibility
                                                   Business Wire
                                     July 31, 2024 Wednesday 7:05 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 986 words
Dateline: SEATTLE

Body


Veeam® Software , the #1 leader by market share in Data Resilience, today announced the next generation of
Veeam Data Cloud for Microsoft 365 with the new capabilities offered by Microsoft 365 Backup Storage. Veeam
Data Cloud , which is built on Microsoft Azure, provides backup-as-a-service (BaaS) for Microsoft 365, enabling
data resilience and leveraging powerful data protection and security technology within a simple, seamless user
experience.

As a launch partner for Microsoft 365 Backup Storage, Veeam is leveraging the latest Microsoft technology with
Veeam Data Cloud for Microsoft 365 to deliver lightning-fast backup and recovery capabilities for large Microsoft
365 environments, ensuring organizations protect critical data against cyber-attacks and data loss scenarios, further
enabling complete data resiliency. This solution further strengthens Veeam's position in protecting Microsoft 365
users, with over 21 million users already under Veeam's protection.

"One of the benefits of our multi-year strategic partnership with Microsoft is rapidly bringing new advances to our
joint customers and partners. This new release combines the benefits of Veeam's industry-leading technology - in
both data protection and ransomware recovery - with the latest Microsoft 365 data resilience capabilities introduced
by Microsoft, and extends them to even more customers using Microsoft 365. In addition, we're making great
progress in our joint innovation bringing the power and insights of Microsoft Copilot to the Veeam product family,"
said John Jester, Chief Revenue Officer (CRO) at Veeam. "As the #1 leader in Microsoft 365 protection with over
21 million users protected, Veeam together with Microsoft provides the ultimate Microsoft 365 backup and recovery
solution and sets the standard for how enterprises manage data protection."

Microsoft's new backup technology is seamlessly embedded inside Veeam's backup service for Microsoft 365,
combining the new high-speed backup and recovery capabilities with Veeam's established and unmatched restore
and eDiscovery options tailored to meet any potential data loss and compliance scenario. This powerful fusion,
where speed and scale meet control and flexibility, empowers organizations with the best of both worlds.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
  Veeam Brings Data Resilience to Over 21 Million Microsoft 365 Users with New Microsoft 365 Backup Storage
                       Capabilities for Veeam Data Cloud New Veeam Data Cloud....

"The collaboration with Veeam is an advancement in assisting our shared clients with quick recovery after cyber
incidents. We look forward to deepening our collaboration to improve data protection for users," said Zach
Rosenfield, Director of PM for Collaborative Apps and Platforms at Microsoft.

Veeam Data Cloud for Microsoft 365 with Microsoft 365 Backup Storage delivers:
    •   Speed and Scale: This latest offering from Veeam and Microsoft is designed to manage large volumes of
        data seamlessly, with the ability to protect and restore 100+ TBs of data or 10,000+ objects. With this
        advanced solution, what used to take weeks or months is now accomplished within hours..
    •   Disaster Recovery: This new solution offers bulk restores at scale, ensuring increased resilience to
        ransomware or malware attacks and minimizing downtime. Veeam Data Cloud for Microsoft 365 with
        Microsoft 365 Backup Storage empowers organizations to bounce back quickly from any data loss
        scenario. Organizations no longer have to choose between paying a ransom or enduring weeks or months
        of data restoration.
    •   Future Readiness: As part of a new 5-year strategic partnership, Veeam is developing future solutions with
        Microsoft integrating Microsoft Copilot and Azure AI services to enhance data protection for Microsoft 365
        and Azure. These solutions will simplify operations, automate administrative tasks, and allow organizations
        to allocate resources to business-critical initiatives, ensuring they stay ahead in a rapidly changing digital
        landscape.

"As adoption of Microsoft 365 increases, the volume and criticality of their associated data sets is also growing,"
said Krista Macomber, Research Director at The Futurum Group. "Without the proper data protection solution, this
can lead to highly time-consuming, cumbersome backup processes - ultimately resulting in delayed, missed, or
incomplete backups. Equally an issue, it can also lead to slow and incomplete recovery processes. This cannot be
afforded, especially given the need for resiliency against the onslaught of cyber-attacks. Veeam is directly
addressing these challenges with the most recent update to its Microsoft 365 backup capabilities."

Veeam Data Cloud for Microsoft 365 with Microsoft 365 Backup Storage will be available in early August. Three
packaging options (Express, Flex, and Premium) are available to accommodate Veeam and Microsoft customers:
https://go.veeam.com/veeam-data-cloud-with-microsoft-365-backup-storage . For more information, visit
https://www.veeam.com .

About Veeam Software

Veeam®, the #1 global market leader in data resilience, believes every business should be able to bounce forward
after a disruption with the confidence and control of all their data whenever and wherever they need it.? Veeam
calls this radical resilience, and we're obsessed with creating innovative ways to help our customers achieve it.

Veeam solutions are purpose-built for powering data resilience by providing data backup, data recovery, data
freedom, data security, and data intelligence. ?With Veeam, IT and security leaders rest easy knowing that their
apps and data are protected and always available across their cloud, virtual, physical, SaaS, and Kubernetes
environments.

Headquartered in Seattle with offices in more than 30 countries, Veeam protects over 550,000 customers
worldwide, including 74% of the Global 2000, that trust Veeam to keep their businesses running. ?Radical resilience
starts with Veeam. Learn more at www.veeam.com or follow Veeam on LinkedIn @veeam-software and X @veeam
.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240731536506/en/


CONTACT: Heidi Monroe Kroft
Veeam Software

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
  Veeam Brings Data Resilience to Over 21 Million Microsoft 365 Users with New Microsoft 365 Backup Storage
                       Capabilities for Veeam Data Cloud New Veeam Data Cloud....

Global Corporate Communications / Public Relations
(614) 339-8200

heidi.kroft@veeam.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 31, 2024


  
