

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
  RWTH Aachen University and Hitachi Vantara Boost Infrastructure Transformation with 56 Petabyte Digitization
                                                 Project




         RWTH Aachen University and Hitachi Vantara Boost Infrastructure
              Transformation with 56 Petabyte Digitization Project
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           July 10, 2024 Wednesday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1256 words
Dateline: AACHEN, Germany and SANTA CLARA, Calif., July 10, 2024

Body


PR NewswireNew digital infrastructure consolidates 7,000 systems from 42 state universities and colleges and sets
new standards for data protectionAACHEN, Germany and SANTA CLARA, Calif., July 10, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --
Hitachi Vantara, the data storage, infrastructure, and hybrid cloud management subsidiary of Hitachi, Ltd. (TSE:
6501), has developed a backup and recovery solution for the 42 state universities and university of applied sciences
in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany. Together with the Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische
Hochschule (RWTH) Aachen, Hitachi Vantara provided digital infrastructure that enhances data resilience, protects
against future threats, and reduces overall costs and power consumption.

To learn more Hitachi Vantara's object storage capabilities, visit:https://www.hitachivantara.com/en-
us/products/storage-platforms/object-storageMany organisations have experienced critical data loss and
permanently lost their data as a result. The most prevalent causes are human error, hardware failures, cyber-
attacks (ransomware and account take over), and natural disaster. The RWTH Aachen University experienced this
first hand in 2016, when a massive fire destroyed a building on the campus that also housed one of their
decentralized data centers.In asurveyconducted last year with 1,288 decision-makers in large organisations across
12 countries, Hitachi Vantara found that 22% of those surveyed admitted important data isn't protected and 68%
have concerns over whether their organization's data infrastructure is resilient enough. Only 29% are extremely
confident their employees are following their security policies.In North Rhine-Westphalia, the digitization of the
university landscape is being accelerated to improve efficiency and security at the state universities. A key element
of this process is the consolidation of digital infrastructure services, such as backup and recovery. In the past, each
university, faculty, and institute developed and operated its own backup and recovery processes and solutions.To
increase productivity, cost efficiency, and protection against cyber threats such as ransomware, the universities of
the state cooperatively created a consolidated offering for all universities:Datensicherung.NRW. The project
establishes a unique model for delivering IT services at scale and provides standardized services for all
universities.The high-performance and scalable solution based on the object storage solution Hitachi Content
Platform (HCP) already backs up around 7,000 systems, including around 4,500 at RWTH and a further 2,500 from
other universities and colleges. The current storage capacity is 56 PB. This major technical project represents
significant progress in the digitization of the university infrastructure in NRW and sets new standards in the use of
modern storage technologies for backing up and restoring university data."Data is the lifeblood of a university, and
scientific data is invaluable. At the same time, we cannot completely lock up our systems like a commercial

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
  RWTH Aachen University and Hitachi Vantara Boost Infrastructure Transformation with 56 Petabyte Digitization
                                                 Project

business. Hitachi Vantara's executive management told us they would do everything they could to make this
challenging project a success - and they did. This service is now a cornerstone of the state's cyber resiliency
strategy. By delivering reliable, immutable backups as a service, our Hitachi solution plays a key role in
strengthening cybersecurity and minimizing the impact of security threats," commentsProf. Dr. Matthias Müller,
Head of the IT Center at RWTH Aachen University.RWTH Aachen University implemented the HCP distributed
object storage solution in six university data centers as a backup target. The geo-redundant configuration of the
distributed object storage solution with 72 nodes and a total of 56 PB storage capacity uses geo-erasure coding to
guarantee data integrity and resilience across multiple locations. This is one way that Hitachi Vantara offers
customers and partners tools to address data protection and cyber resiliency challenges using itsseven-layer,
defense-in-depth strategy, while reducing the cost and complexity that is inherent when dealing with multiple
vendors. "Even we don't build a geo-redundant data backup of this size every day. We are extremely proud that
RWTH has chosen our storage technology as the basis for the Datensicherung NRW project," saysPetra-Maria
Grohs, Managing Director Germany at Hitachi Vantara. "The project is proof that there are hardly any limits to
distributed data backup and that our HCP can also cover complex requirements."Hitachi Vantara's HCP is part of
an industry-recognizedunstructured data management portfolio(UDM) that empowers organizations to manage and
derive insights from their unstructured data. Recentlyrecognized by GigaOmas being a leader and fast mover in
UDM, Hitachi Vantara's UDM portfolio, including HCP and a suite of interconnected solutions, offers hybrid cloud
agility, intelligent data management and advanced AI and analytics capabilities. By prioritizing data protection and
cyber resilience, businesses gain the flexibility and intelligence needed to thrive amidst evolving data.For more
information on Hitachi Content Platform,please click here.Additional ResourcesCase Study: Aachen
UniversityWebinar: Multi-Layer Protection: Deeper Defense Against CyberattacksPress Release: Hitachi Vantara
Achieves Leader and Fast Mover Status in 2024 GigaOm Radar for Unstructured Data Management for Fourth
Consecutive YearBlog: Your Business Relies on Data – and Growing Threats are Putting that Data at RiskInsights:
Building an Unbreakable Data Infrastructure in the Age of AI and Hybrid CloudConnect With Hitachi
VantaraLinkedInXFacebookAbout Hitachi VantaraHitachi Vantara is transforming the way data fuels innovation. A
wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi Ltd., Hitachi Vantara provides the data foundation the world's leading innovators
rely on. Through data storage, infrastructure systems, cloud management and digital expertise, the company helps
customers build the foundation for sustainable business growth. To learn more, visitwww.hitachivantara.com.About
Hitachi, Ltd.Hitachi drives Social Innovation Business, creating a sustainable society through the use of data and
technology. We solve customers' and society's challenges with Lumada solutions leveraging IT, OT (Operational
Technology) and products. Hitachi operates under the 3 business sectors of "Digital Systems & Services" –
supporting our customers' digital transformation; "Green Energy & Mobility" – contributing to a decarbonized society
through energy and railway systems, and "Connective Industries" – connecting products through digital technology
to provide solutions in various industries. Driven by Digital, Green, and Innovation, we aim for growth through co-
creation with our customers. The company's revenues as 3 sectors for fiscal year 2023 (ended March 31, 2024)
totaled 8,564.3 billion yen, with 573 consolidated subsidiaries and approximately 270,000 employees worldwide.
For more information on Hitachi, please visit the company's website athttps://www.hitachi.com.HITACHI is a
trademark or registered trademark of Hitachi, Ltd. All other trademarks, service marks, and company names are
properties        of     their   respective     owners.            View     original    content     to     download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rwth-aachen-university-and-hitachi-vantara-boost-
infrastructure-transformation-with-56-petabyte-digitization-project-302192930.htmlSOURCE Hitachi Vantara


Load-Date: July 10, 2024


  
