

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 5
    New to The Street Celebrates the July 4th Holiday with Five Fantastic Business Interviews. Episode 579 Airs
                          on Bloomberg TV as a Sponsored Programming on July 4....




    New to The Street Celebrates the July 4th Holiday with Five Fantastic
   Business Interviews. Episode 579 Airs on Bloomberg TV as a Sponsored
                 Programming on July 4, 2024, at 9:30 PM PT
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              July 3, 2024 Wednesday 6:15 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CALENDAR OF EVENTS
Length: 2791 words

Body


NEW YORK, July 03, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- FMW Media's New to The Street announces its July 4th
Holiday broadcasting of its national TV business show airing on Bloomberg TV as sponsored programming,
Thursday, July 4, 2024, at 9:30 PM PT.

New to The Street's TV Episode 579 will air the following five (5) fantastic business interviews:

1) Space Medicines - Vector Space Biosciences, Inc.'s (SBIO) interview with Kasian Franks, CEO and Co-Founder.

2) Infused Water Beverage – Karma Water's interview with C.J. Rapp, CEO and Founder.

3) Digital Wellness – Hapbee Technologies, Inc.'s (OTCQB: HAPBF) (TSXV: HAPB) (FSE: HA1) ($HAPBF)
interview with Yona Shtern, CEO/Founder, and Heather Thomson, Business Development Advisor.

4) Sustainable Solutions – Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) interview with Tony Raynor,
CEO and Founder.

5) "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – The Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO,
Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®).

Episode 579

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 5
   New to The Street Celebrates the July 4th Holiday with Five Fantastic Business Interviews. Episode 579 Airs
                         on Bloomberg TV as a Sponsored Programming on July 4....

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King from the New York Stock Exchange Studio talks with Kasian Franks, CEO
and Co-Founder of Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) ("Vector") (“Company”). The Company specializes in
harnessing biological language modeling that results in correlations on real-time datasets to advance scientific
advancements and discoveries. Vector accomplishes unique and implicit biological connections of genes, proteins,
and other biochemicals, seeking to form and repurpose existing drugs/compounds to advance human health/well-
being on Earth and for space travel. Using the Company's CubeSats, a small satellite square object, specific
experiments can occur in zero gravity. During the interview, Kasian showed Vector's 1-U model CubeSat. He
further explains that the CubeSats come in larger sizes, enabling more complex and more extended space
experiments. The first CubeSat launch will be a space radiation experiment. Vector's corporate financial structure
has two valuations: crypto and equity. Kasian explains that he has yet to find Venture Capital (VC) or Investment
Banking firms to produce a mathematical model that creates a single valuation. SBIO is a security token that
represents the Company's equity. Vector's parent company, Vectorspace AI, has a utility token, VXV, that protects
the dataset security and provenance on data-driven innovation and discoveries from space experiments. Creating
new and exciting compounds for the betterment of humankind here on Earth and for Space travel, Vector Space
Biosciences, Inc. is an up-and-coming leader in the fast-growing space industry. The on-screen QR code is
available during the show; download or visit Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) -
https://vectorspacebio.science/.

Karma Water's Chief Executive Officer and Founder, C.J. Rapp ("CJ"), is with New to The Street's TV host Jane
King. From the New York Stock Exchange Studio, they talk about the fundamental ongoings and history of Karma
Water and its patented "Karma Push-Cap" technology, which instantaneously infuses water with natural flavoring,
probiotics, and vitamins. CJ has succeeded in the beverage sector and founded Jolt Cola ("JOLT"), a well-known
beverage brand. The idea for Karma Water comes from the industry shortfalls related to pre-mixed, water-soluble
vitamins/nutrients in current beverage products. These products are sometimes hotly mixed and then sit on shelves,
exposed to climate conditions, and over time, the wellness benefits become significantly reduced. The FDA has
acted on this issue, stating that labeling needs to be more accurate on pre-mixed products due to time-related
reduced optimization benefits. So, ten years ago, CJ started Karma Water, which continues to grow brand
awareness, increase retail locations, expand online orders, and educate consumers. Karma Water collaborates with
Constellation Brands, Inc., a large Fortune 500 Company, and CJ believes this relationship will increase Karma's
brand identity. CJ doesn't expect to go public directly, but if the relationship with Constellation proves successful,
perhaps Constellation will acquire the Company. CJ demonstrates the product on air, showing how immediately the
bottle is infused with natural flavor and vitamin mix. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download
or visit Karma Water - https://drinkkarma.com/.

From the New York Stock Exchange Studio, New to The Street's TV Host Jane King interviews Yona Shtern, Chief
Executive Officer/Founder, and Heather Thomson, Business Development Advisor of Hapbee Technologies, Inc.
(OTCQB: HAPBF) (TSXV: HAPB) (FSE: HA1) ("Hapbee") ("Company"). As the next generation of wearable
wellness technology, Hapbee offers chemical-free products that can improve sleep, increase energy, improve
modes, and overall wellness. Hapbee uses digital frequency incorporated into its products, like Hapbee Neckbands,
which can stimulate the brain without using drugs, caffeine, or other products without chemical-induced side effects.
Yona talks about how the Company will utilize money received from a CDN $2.8M investment to increase marketing
avenues, manufacturing, and product developments. He expects to expand its brand footprint in North America and
globally. Very well-known individuals in the financial community and sports world became investors in this financial
offering and joined the Company's Board of Directors. Heather Thomson, the Company's Business Development
Advisor, talks to viewers about her experience using the product, improving her overall health and wellness without
pills and chemical stimulants, and being a brand ambassador online and at retail locations. Consumer trends in
demand for wellness products are consistent with customers who are buying Hapbee's products. Hapbee's unique
digital wellness products are authentic solutions that create an outstanding user experience and offer consumers a
chemical-free choice in seeking better health/wellness. The on-screen QR code is available during the show;
download or visit Hapbee Technologies, Inc.- https://hapbee.com/.

                                                                                                    Page 3 of 5
   New to The Street Celebrates the July 4th Holiday with Five Fantastic Business Interviews. Episode 579 Airs
                         on Bloomberg TV as a Sponsored Programming on July 4....

On New to The Street, Sustainable Green Team, Ltd.'s (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) (“Company”) CEO and Founder,
Tony Raynor, talks with TV Host Jane King from the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio. SGTM is revolutionizing
sustainability using cutting-edge technology, converting waste into viable products. Agricultural companies can
meet their sustainability goals using SGTM's products and services. The Company diversified itself from making
mulch products by introducing cutting-edge, disruptive technologies that address the world's agricultural problems.
Tony explains that in addition to groundbreaking technologies, the Company has a global team of experts and
consultants with experience in finance, governmental agencies, and sustainability methodologies. The adage:
"Wisdom comes through the multitude of counsel" explains Tony's team of global personnel committed to
spearheading projects with the vision for immediate objectives and sustainable solutions. With personnel in the
Middle East, Australia, and the USA, Tony has the right team to launch all SGTM's products and services globally.
SGTM's technology converts waste into nutrient-rich soil, diminishing food insecurities while sequestering carbon,
reducing odors, and limiting diseases. SGTM's team and technologically advanced products are genuinely
revolutionary, and they have a global mission to scale upward to increase agricultural outputs dramatically. The
Company has a YouTube channel with many informative videos about the Company and its sustainable initiatives.
The on-screen QR code is available during the shows; download or visit Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. -
https://www.thesustainablegreenteam.com/.

New to The Street TV airs its "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security Segment – Weekly Hack" with internationally
acclaimed internet privacy expert Mr. Alain Ghiai, CEO of Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR)
(FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (“Company”). TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry and Alain discuss a recent
report about a hack that occurred at the UK's Ministry of Defense (MOD). The cybersecurity breach stole thousands
of names, addresses, and other personal data of many associated with the MOD. Many governments globally use
Big Tech platforms, which have minimal cybersecurity features. Hackers usually figured out how to download
malware onto government devices and exploit compromised email addresses as a computer system entry point.
Alain says many emerging-growth countries' governments use open-source platforms, which is a hacking problem
waiting to happen. Sekur has cybersecurity solutions for governments. Sekur's closed-loop encrypted platforms
have a variety of subscription solutions that can significantly diminish a cybersecurity breach - SekurMail with
SekurSend/SekurReply, SekurMessenger with Chat-by-Invite, and SekurVPN. Sekur 100% owns its servers in
Switzerland, a country with very tough privacy laws. The Company never tracks your devices, never sells data,
doesn't use 3rd party platforms, and never asks for phone numbers. PROMO CODE: PRIVACY is now available,
giving 15% savings toward monthly and yearly subscriptions. Viewers, please tune in next time for the newest
cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security– Weekly Hack" segment. The on-screen QR code is
available during the shows to download more info or visit Sekur Private Data, Ltd. – https://sekurprivatedata.com/,
http:/sekur.com/ and https://sekur.com/en/vpn. Privacy has arrived!

About Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO):

Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO), the parent company of Vectorspace AI (VXV), and its scientific
collaborators design, develop, and launch biological CubeSats to generate and interpret unique datasets related to
microgravity and radiation. This leads to the development of countermeasures against diseases associated with
stressors connected to protecting and repairing the human body during spaceflight. This includes using a network of
scientific data engineering pipelines to build targeted language models resulting in real-time datasets that power
Artificial Intelligence (AI) operations in space biosciences, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical development.
Working with leading scientific labs in human aging, cancer, and nutrigenomics, the Company aims to accelerate
the process of new hypothesis generation and novel discoveries in space biosciences, including materials sciences
in nanotechnology and nanomedicines. Developing advanced large and small language modeling/AI technologies,
our platform can produce more than 100,000,000,000 different real-time datasets to accelerate discoveries.
Innovations in space biosciences result in products and services for all industries, including the financial markets,
and more importantly, new forms of precision medicine for all humankind - https://vectorspacebio.science/.

About Karma Water:

                                                                                                    Page 4 of 5
   New to The Street Celebrates the July 4th Holiday with Five Fantastic Business Interviews. Episode 579 Airs
                         on Bloomberg TV as a Sponsored Programming on July 4....

Karma Water provides an immediately-infused beverage that gives consumers satisfaction. The Karma Difference:
While other brands may make empty promises, Karma's patented Push Cap protects the active ingredients until the
minute you're ready to drink, guaranteeing you'll receive the highest nutritional benefits. The Company offers Karma
Energy Water, Karma Probiotic Water, and Karma CBD Water products, all using the Company's patented Push
Cap—https://drinkkarma.com/.

About Hapbee Technologies, Inc. (OTCQB: HAPBF) (TSXV: HAPB) (FSE: HA1) ($HAPBF):

Hapbee Technologies, Inc. (OTCQB: HAPBF) (TSXV: HAPB) (FSE: HA1) ($HAPBF) ("Hapbee") is a digital
wellness technology company that aims to help people take control of how they sleep, perform, and feel. Hapbee's
digital wellness library of Blends and Routines utilizes patented ultra-low radio frequency energy (ulRFE®)
designed to help optimize users' sleep, productivity, recovery, and downtime. Hapbee products are available at
Hapbee.com and through a growing network of select distributors - www.Hapbee.com.

About Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM):

Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) is a leading Company in climate reversing technologies, a
provider of sustainable solutions to improve environmental health, promote sustainable practices, and deliver eco-
friendly products and services. SGTM aims to make significant contributions to global sustainability; learn more by
visiting the Company website, https://thesustainablegreenteam.com/, SGTM's YouTube Channel, corporate
commercial          -       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_0rLESvJJ0,           corporate           video      -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xJ7Dp9Coi88&t=1s                and           SGTM's              Blogs           -
https://thesustainablegreenteam.com/sgtm-blog.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About New to The Street:

New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running US and International
sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street." Since 2009, New to
The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S . television networks. The Nielsen-rated
and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US and international markets.
FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg and the FOX Business Network as sponsored
programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form paid
programming - https://newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all filings of the Companies
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

                                                                                                    Page 5 of 5
   New to The Street Celebrates the July 4th Holiday with Five Fantastic Business Interviews. Episode 579 Airs
                         on Bloomberg TV as a Sponsored Programming on July 4....

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT:

New to The Street Monica Brennan monica@NewtoTheStreet.com https://newtothestreet.com/ 1-917-330-2564

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                       at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/35adc5a2-e3b1-40e1-8f1d-f9602ed47611

New to The Street Celebrates the July 4th Holiday with Five Fantastic Business Interviews. Episode 579 Airs on
Bloomberg TV as a Sponsored Programming on July 4, 2024, at 9:30 PM PT

July 4th Show: 1). Vector Space Biosciences, Inc. (SBIO) 2). Karma Water 3). Hapbee Technologies, Inc. (OTCQB:
HAPBF) (TSXV: HAPB) (FSE: HA1) ($HAPBF) 4).Sustainable Green Team, Ltd. (OTC: SGTM) ($SGTM) 5). Sekur
Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®) - www.newtothestreet.com


Load-Date: July 3, 2024


  
