

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
            Oracle Strengthens Saudi Arabia 's AI Economy with Opening of Second Public Cloud Region




    Oracle Strengthens Saudi Arabia's AI Economy with Opening of Second
                            Public Cloud Region
                                                           PR Newswire
                                            August 6, 2024 Tuesday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1267 words
Dateline: AUSTIN, Texas and RIYADH, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Aug. 6, 2024

Body


PR NewswireNew public cloud region in Riyadh is Oracle's second cloud region in Saudi Arabia and part of
Oracle's US $1.5 billion investment to boost the country's cloud capacity in line with Saudi Vision 2030Saudi
organizations can take advantage of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure's high performance and built-in security, powerful
data, distributed cloud, and disaster recovery capabilitiesto help accelerate AI innovation and enhance business
resilienceOracle's footprint expands to eight cloud regions in the Middle East and North Africa – one of the fastest
expansions by any hyperscaler in the regionAUSTIN, Texas and RIYADH, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Aug. 6, 2024
/PRNewswire/ -- To meet the rapidly growing demand for its AI and cloud services, Oracle today announced the
opening of its second public cloud region in Saudi Arabia. The new Riyadh cloud region will help public and private
sector organizations migrate all types of workloads toOracle Cloud Infrastructure(OCI), giving them access to a
wide range of cloud services to modernize their applications and innovate with data, analytics, and AI. Center3 is
the host partner for the new Oracle Cloud Riyadh Region.

 Part of Oracle'sdistributed cloudstrategy and Oracle'sUS $1.5 billion investmentto expand cloud infrastructure
capabilities in the Kingdom, the new region will help boost the Kingdom's AI economy, which is expected to
reach$135.2 billion by 2030. The Oracle Cloud Riyadh Region joins the existing Oracle Cloud Jeddah Region and
the planned Oracle Cloud Region in NEOM to extend Oracle's footprint in Saudi Arabia. Oracle is the only
hyperscaler capable of delivering AI and a full suite of 100+ cloud services across dedicated, public, and hybrid
cloud environments, anywhere in the world. This includesOracle Autonomous Database,HeatWave MySQL
Database Service,Oracle Container Engine for Kubernetes,Oracle Cloud VMware Solution,OCI Generative AI
service,OCI AI Infrastructure, andOCI Supercluster."The opening of Oracle's new cloud region in Riyadh reflects
the Kingdom's continuous efforts in boosting the digital economy based on modern technologies and innovation,"
said His Excellency Eng. Haytham Alohali, vice minister, the Ministry of Communications and Information
Technology. "This step will significantly enable international and local companies to achieve innovation and
promote the adoption of AI and cloud computing technologies in various sectors, which enhances Saudi Arabia's
competitiveness at the regional and international level.""With the rapid expansion of our cloud footprint in Saudi
Arabia, Oracle is committed to helping the country achieve its goal of developing one of the strongest digital
economies in the world," said Richard Smith, executive vice president and general manager, EMEA Cloud
Infrastructure, Oracle. "As part of our wider investment in cloud capabilities in Saudi Arabia, the Oracle Cloud
Riyadh Region will help accelerate adoption of cloud and AI technologies to boost innovation across all sectors of
the Saudi economy, while helping organizations addressing local data hosting requirements."OCI Provides

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
           Oracle Strengthens Saudi Arabia 's AI Economy with Opening of Second Public Cloud Region

Customers and Partners with a Resilient and Scalable Cloud FoundationWith the Oracle Cloud Riyadh Region
adding to the existing Oracle Cloud Jeddah Region, customers and partners can gain low-latency access to cloud
services to help them derive better value from their data. Customers can also leverage high availability and backup
and disaster recovery capabilities across the two regions in Saudi Arabia to enhance business continuity and help
address local regulations and requirements for local data hosting. In addition, OCI's sovereign AI capabilities
provide customers with increased control over where they locate their data and computing infrastructure and how
they manage it. As a result, customers can make use of AI capabilities designed with the requirements of digital
sovereignty frameworks in mind.OCI's unique cloud architecture enables Oracle to launch dedicated cloud regions
with hyperscale cloud services inside customer data centers, and deploy more public cloud regions faster by
starting with an optimal footprint and scaling as needed. This approach helps meet the needs of all countries and
markets without compromising cloud capabilities, while also providing the consistent performance, SLAs, and global
pricing for which OCI has become known.Partners and Analysts Welcome the New Public Cloud Region"We
are thrilled to collaborate with Oracle as they expand their cloud infrastructure in Saudi Arabia with the new Riyadh
cloud region," said Fahad Alhajeri, chief executive officer, center3. "This strategic initiative delivers on our shared
vision of fostering technological innovation and advancing the digital economy of the Kingdom. Oracle's cloud
regions in Saudi Arabia will play an important role in enhancing data sovereignty, driving digital transformation, and
empowering businesses across the country to achieve greater agility and growth.""Oracle's continued expansion of
its cloud footprint in Saudi Arabia is vital as companies increasingly leverage AI and GenAI capabilities," said Jyoti
Lalchandani, regional managing director, Middle East, Türkiye, Africa & India, IDC. "Local cloud infrastructure helps
organizations ensure faster data processing, enhanced security, and their compliance with national regulations,
helping them innovate more efficiently and effectively. This strategic move not only supports the Kingdom's vision to
leverage artificial intelligence to drive digital transformation, but also empowers companies to harness the full
potential of AI, driving competitive advantage and creating local value and growth in the Kingdom."About Oracle
Distributed CloudOracle's distributed cloud delivers the benefits of cloud with greater control and flexibility.
Oracle's distributed cloud lineup includes:Public cloud: Hyperscale public cloud regions serve any size of
organization, including those requiring strict EU sovereignty controls. See the full list of regions here.Dedicated
cloud: Customers can run all OCI cloud services in their own data centers with OCI Dedicated Region, while
partners can resell OCI cloud services and customize the experience using Oracle Alloy. Oracle also operates
separate U.S., UK, and Australian Government Clouds, and Isolated Cloud Regions for U.S. national security
purposes. Each of these products provide a full cloud and AI stack that customers can deploy as a Sovereign
Cloud.Hybrid cloud: OCI delivers key cloud services on-premises via Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer and
Compute Cloud@Customer and is already managing deployments in over 60 countries.Multicloud: Options
including Oracle Database@Azure, HeatWave MySQL on AWS and Microsoft Azure, Oracle Interconnect for
Microsoft Azure, and Oracle Interconnect for Google Cloud allow customers to combine key capabilities from across
clouds.Additional ResourcesLearn more about the Oracle Cloud RegionsLearn more about Oracle Cloud
InfrastructureAbout OracleOracle offers integrated suites of applications plus secure, autonomous infrastructure in
the Oracle Cloud. For more information about Oracle (NYSE: ORCL), please visit us
atwww.oracle.com.TrademarksOracle, Java, MySQL and NetSuite are registered trademarks of Oracle
Corporation. NetSuite was the first cloud company—ushering in the new era of cloud computing. View original
content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/oracle-strengthens-saudi-arabias-ai-
economy-with-opening-of-second-public-cloud-region-302215035.htmlSOURCE Oracle


Load-Date: August 6, 2024


  
