

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
                                                    PR NO. 27




                                                  PR NO. 27
                                               States News Service
                                           September 3, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1280 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan

Body


The following information was released by the Government of Pakistan:

The Central Development Working Party (CDWP) has approved 8 development projects worth of Rs. 144.3 billion
during its meeting chaired by Minister PDSI and Deputy Chairman Planning Commission Ahsan Iqbal, Out of these,
5 projects worth Rs. 15.35 billion have been approved by the CDWP forum, while the forum has recommended 3
projects worth Rs. 129 billion to the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) for its
consideration. The meeting was attended by Secretary Planning Awais Manzur Sumra, Additional Secretary
Planning, Members of the Planning Commission, JCE (Ops), JCE (Ep), as well as respective Federal Secretaries
heads of Provincial and representatives from Federal Ministries and Provincial Governments.

The agenda included discussion on projects of Education, Health, Higher Education, Transport and Communication
and Water Resources sectors. In the Central Development Working Party (CDWP) meeting, Ahsan Iqbal expressed
his heartfelt gratitude to the Prime Minister for entrusting him with the position of Deputy Chairman for the fourth
time. He highlighted the significance of the forum in relation to developmental projects, emphasizing that approval
for development projects by CDWP exceeding one billion rupees is granted. Mr. Ahsan Iqbal pointed out that in
2018, PMLN government left Pakistan's development budget at 1,000 billion rupees. However, six years later, the
challenge remains to even maintain this figure due to the country's economic crises due to 2018-2022 era's
mismanagement. He stressed that the shrinking development budget demands a focus on sustainable growth,
currency stabilization, and economic stability through resource mobilization. The Deputy Chairman also noted that a
more than 50% of the total expenditure is consumed by debt servicing. He emphasized the need to expand the tax
net and promote exports. Despite these challenges, he expressed optimism, acknowledging the government's
efforts to reduce the inflation rate from 35% to 9.5%. Mr. Ahsan Iqbal further stated that as 100% of Federal
Government net resources consumed by debt servicing and development budget is based on borrowing essential to
ensure value for money through due diligence. He called on all provinces and ministries to exercise the utmost
caution and responsibility when planning new projects. He urged that no compromise should be made on quality
while preparing PC-I documents, and that national priorities should be considered when formulating any project.
Poorly prepared project documents should be promptly returned to the respective ministries. The government is
committed turning around the economy by implementing 5Es National Economic Transformation Plan and restore
6% annual growth by 2029. A project related to Education presented in the meeting namely "Reaching Out of
School Children (OOSC) in AJK" worth Rs. 7183.515 million was approved by the CDWP forum. The source of the

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                                                     PR NO. 27

financing is IsDB loan. A project related to Health sector presented in the meeting namely "Establishment of Nawaz
Sharif Institute of Cancer Treatment and Research, Lahore" worth Rs. 52772.520 million recommended to ECNEC
for consideration. The project is proposed to be financed through Provincial ADP. The project scope includes civil
work for main hospital, Cancer care clinic, Hospice and Palliative care facility, Doctors accommodation and Parking
plaza, procurement of medical equipment, furniture and fixtures, hiring of medical and allied service staff and
establishment of Project Management Unit comprising of professors and consultants in Clinical care. The PC-I
envisaged provision of low cost quality and comprehensive Cancer treatment through a 565 bedded Institute of
Cancer and research located in Lahore. The Cancer treatment related healthcare services will be integrating
various modalities such as Surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy and palliative care. Project also plans to
accommodate patients having terminal illness in the hospital. The project will engage highly qualified personnel's
i.e. medical and engineering professionals, technologist and administrative workforce on market based salaries.
The project is being constructed on Government owned land. Four projects related to Higher Education sector
presented in the meeting namely "Establishment of National Center of Artificial Intelligence (Revisited)" worth Rs.
1854.446 million, "Establishment of National Center of Excellence in Big Data and Cloud Computing (Revised):
worth Rs. 2383.186 million, "Establishment of National Center in Robotics and Automation (Revised)" worth Rs.
2043.663 million and "Establishment of National Center for Cyber Security (Revised)" worth Rs. 1887.794 million
approved by the forum. These projects will underscore by its commitment to advancing Technology Readiness
Levels (TRLs) to unprecedented heights. The big data project will focus on digital export activities, ensuring global
recognition and industry collaboration. The idea is to provide a platform for promoting a culture of Big Data Analytics
and the Cloud Computing industry and related businesses. A project related to Transport and Communications
presented in the meeting namely "Sindh Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project (SFERP) Phase-II" worth Rs.
61308 million recommended to ECNEC for consideration. The project is proposed to be financed through World
Bank loan. The local funding of the project is 5574 million and the foreign funding is 55734 million. The proposed
project under Phase-II of SFERP will support the Government of Sindh efforts to rehabilitate critical infrastructure
damaged during the 2022 floods and enhance disaster response capacity. The activities proposed under Phase-II
are aimed at scaling-up key activities and addressing financing gaps, to increase overall program impact and
enhance its development effectiveness. A project related to Water Resource sector presented in the meeting
namely "Kachi Canal Project Restoration of Flood Damages 2022" worth Rs. 14701.427 million recommended to
ECNEC for further consideration. The project is aimed to restore the Kachhi Canal Infrastructure in the Punjab
Province, so that the benefits anticipated in approved PC-I of Kachhi Canal Project (Phase-I) may be continued.
Unprecedented torrential rains occurred in the project area during recent Monsoon in June August-2022. The pre-
monsoon rainfalls were witnessed in the project area in mid of June 2022. The major monsoon spells observed in
the Kachhi Canal Project area during 20th June, 7th July, 14th July, 26th July and 13-14th August 2022.
Resultantly, exceptionally high flash floods emanating from major Hill Torrents of Koh e Suleman range hit the
Kachhi Canal from RD 0+000 to RD 1005+000 and severe damages were occurred to Canal due to this natural
calamity. The Project includes Restoration of flood damages of Kachhi Canal Project RD 0+000 to RD 1005+000
which are essential to synchronize and to restore the system of Kachhi Canal Project The components which have
been included are Earth Work, desalting of canal prism. restoration of breaches/cuts of F.P. Bund and
Embankments (IPandNIP), replacement of damaged P.C.C Canal Lining, restoration of damaged structure and
construction of inlet structures and restoration of underground water course crossing. The CDWP forum cleared two
Concept Papers namely "Recovery of Maternal and Child Health Care Equipment in Flood Affected Areas in Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa" sponsored by JICA and "Green Energy Projects Financed by KFW Bank Germany-PEECA/Gov of
Punjab" financed by KFW Bank Germany PEECA/ Govt.


Load-Date: September 3, 2024


  
