

                                                                           Page 1 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION




 RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY
  OF CHINA ON FURTHER DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO
                ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION
                                                 States News Service
                                                July 21, 2024 Sunday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 20092 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BEIJING, China

Body


The following information was released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China:

(Adopted at the third plenary session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on"July 18,
2024)

In order to implement the strategic plans made at the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China
(CPC), the 20th CPC Central Committee studied the issue of further deepening reform comprehensively to advance
Chinese modernization at its third plenary session. On this basis, it adopted this resolution.

I. Great Significance and Overall Requirements

(1) Importance and necessity

Reform and opening up have been crucial to the"cause of the Party and the people, enabling us to catch up with
the times in great strides. The third plenary session of the 11th CPC Central Committee was a landmark event that
ushered in a new period: one of reform, opening up, and socialist modernization. The third plenary session of the
18th CPC Central Committee was also of epoch-making significance. It marked the start of a new journey of
comprehensively deepening reform in the new era with systematic and holistic plans, thus paving the way for a
brand new stage in China's reform and opening up endeavors.

The Party Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core has, with great historical initiative, tremendous
political courage, and a strong sense of mission, united and led the entire Party, the military, and Chinese people of
all ethnic groups in unshackling their thinking and breaking down the barriers erected by vested interests. We have
dared to brave uncharted waters, grapple with tough problems, and navigate potential dangers and have worked
resolutely to remove institutional obstacles in all areas. As a result, reform has evolved from a variety"of trials and
breakthroughs limited to certain areas into an integrated drive being advanced across the board. Foundational
institutional frameworks have been basically put in place in all sectors, and historic, systemic, and holistic

                                                                           Page 2 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

transformations have been achieved in many fields. Overall, we have accomplished the reform tasks set at the third
plenary session of the 18th Central Committee and attained our objective of achieving marked results in making all
institutions more mature and better-defined by the time of the Party's centennial in 2021. All this has provided
strong institutional support for completing the First Centenary Goal of building a moderately prosperous society in
all respects and set China on a new journey toward building a modern socialist country in all respects.

The present and the near future constitute a critical period for our endeavor to build a great country and
move"toward national rejuvenation on all fronts through Chinese modernization."As Chinese modernization has
been advanced continuously through reform and opening up, it will surely embrace broader horizons through further
reform and opening up. To deal with complex developments both at home and abroad, adapt to the new round of
scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, and live up to the new expectations of our
people, it is vital that we continue to advance reform. Advancing reform is essential for upholding and improving the
system of socialism with Chinese characteristics and modernizing China's system and capacity for governance, for
putting the new development philosophy into practice and better adapting to the evolution in the principal
contradiction in Chinese society, and for adhering to a people-centered approach to see that the gains of
modernization benefit all our people fairly. It is also crucial for responding to major risks and challenges and
ensuring steady and sustained progress in the cause of the Party and the country, for promoting the development of
a human community with a shared future and winning the strategic initiative amid accelerating global changes of a
like not seen in a century, and for further advancing the great new project of Party building in the new era and
making our Marxist party stronger. Reform and opening up are an ongoing endeavor rather than a task to be
completed. All of us in the Party must consciously"give more prominence to reform and further deepen reform
comprehensively"with a view to advancing Chinese modernization.

(2) Guiding philosophy

We must stay committed to Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, the Theory of Three
Represents, and the Scientific Outlook on Development and fully implement Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with
Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. We must thoroughly study and implement General Secretary Xi Jinping's
new ideas, viewpoints, and conclusions on comprehensively deepening reform and fully and faithfully apply the new
development philosophy on all fronts. We must adhere to the general principle of pursuing progress while ensuring
stability and continue to free our minds, seek truth from facts, move with the times, and take a realistic and
pragmatic approach, as we work to further unleash and develop the productive forces and tap into and boost the
vitality of our society. Keeping in mind both domestic and international imperatives, we will ensure coordinated
implementation of the Five-Sphere Integrated Plan and the Four-Pronged Comprehensive Strategy."Regarding
economic structural reform as the spearhead and greater social fairness and justice and increased wellbeing of the
people as our ultimate objectives, we will channel greater energy into making our reforms integrated, focused, and
effective. We will work to better adapt the relations of production to the productive forces, the superstructure to the
economic base, and national governance to social development so as to provide strong impetus"and institutional
support for Chinese modernization.

(3) Overall objectives

We will continue to improve and develop the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics and modernize
China's system and capacity for governance. By 2035, we will have finished building a high-standard socialist
market economy in all respects, further improved the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics, generally
modernized our system and capacity for governance, and basically realized socialist modernization. All of this will
lay a solid foundation for building China into a great modern socialist country in all respects by the middle of this
century. In particular, we will focus on achieving the following objectives:

Building a high-standard socialist market economy. We will see that the market plays the decisive role in resource
allocation and that the government better fulfills its role. We will uphold and improve China's basic socialist
economic systems, achieve greater self-reliance and strength in science and technology, and promote high-

                                                                           Page 3 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

standard opening up. We will build a modernized economy, move faster to create a new pattern of development,
and promote high-quality development.

Advancing whole-process people's democracy. We will uphold the unity between leadership by the Party, the
running of the country by the people, and law-based governance. We will improve the institutions through which the
people run the country, promote extensive, multilevel, and institutionalized development of consultative democracy,
and refine the system of socialist rule of law with Chinese characteristics. We will move to a higher stage in building
a socialist country under the rule of law.

Developing a strong socialist culture in China. We will uphold the foundational system for ensuring the guiding role
of Marxism in the ideological domain and improve the institutions and mechanisms for developing cultural programs
and industries. We will promote cultural prosperity, enrich the intellectual and cultural lives of our people, and
enhance China's cultural soft power and the appeal of Chinese culture.

Improving the people's quality of life. We will refine the income distribution, employment, and social security
systems, make basic public services more balanced and accessible, and facilitate more notable, substantive
progress in promoting people's well-rounded development and common prosperity for all.

Building a Beautiful China. We will ramp up the green transition in all areas of economic and social development
and improve the environmental governance system. We will prioritize ecological protection, conserve resources and
use them efficiently, and pursue green and low-carbon development, with a view to promoting harmony between
humanity and nature.

Advancing the Peaceful China Initiative to a higher level. We will strengthen the national security system, enhance
integration between national strategies, and improve our capacity to safeguard national security. We will create new
institutions, mechanisms, and methods for social governance and build"a new"security architecture.

Improving the Party's capacity for leadership and long-term governance. We will develop new and improved ways
of exercising leadership and governance, deepen institutional reforms related to Party building, and improve the
system for exercising full and rigorous Party self-governance.

The reform tasks laid out in this resolution shall be completed by the time the People's Republic of China celebrates
its 80th anniversary in 2029.

(4) Guiding principles

On the basis of reviewing and applying the valuable experience we have gained since the launch of reform and
opening up, particularly from our endeavor"to comprehensively deepen reform in the new era, we will implement the
following principles:

a— Upholding"the Party's overall leadership. We must firmly uphold"the Central Committee's authority and its
centralized, unified leadership and ensure that the Party fulfills its core role of exercising overall leadership and
coordinating the efforts of all sides. We must"ensure"that Party leadership is exercised"in every aspect and
throughout the entire process of reform so that it always advances in the correct political direction.

a— Adhering to a people-centered approach. We must respect the principal position and pioneering spirit"of the
people and make our reform measures highly responsive to the call of the people, so as to ensure that reform is for
the people"and by the people and that its fruits are shared among"the people."

a— Upholding fundamental principles and breaking new ground. Staying committed to socialism with Chinese
characteristics, we must"keep pace with the times, adapt to the evolution of practice, and take"a problem-oriented
approach, so that from a new starting point, we can promote innovations in theory and practice, in our institutions
and culture, and in all other aspects.

                                                                           Page 4 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

a— Strengthening institutional building"as our main task."We must strengthen top-level design and overall planning,
always establishing new systems before abolishing old ones while attaching equal importance to efforts in both
respects. We must consolidate foundational systems, refine"basic systems, and innovate"important systems.

a— Staying committed"to law-based governance on all fronts."We must deepen reform and advance Chinese
modernization under the rule of law and ensure unity between reform and the rule of law, seeing"that all major
reforms have a solid legal basis and that reform achievements"are elevated to law"in a timely manner.

a— Applying"systems thinking. We must"properly handle the major relationships between the economy and society,
between"the government and the market, between efficiency and fairness, between vitality and order, and between
development and security, thus"pursuing"reform in a more systematic, holistic, and coordinated manner.

II. Building a High-Standard Socialist Market Economy

A"high-standard socialist market economy provides an important guarantee for Chinese modernization. We
must"better leverage the"role of the market, foster a fairer and more dynamic market environment, and make
resource allocation as efficient and productive as possible. We need to lift restrictions on the market while ensuring
effective regulation and strive to better maintain order in the market and remedy market failures. By doing so, we
will ensure smooth flows in the national economy and unleash the internal driving forces and creativity"of the whole
of society.

(5) Upholding and fulfilling the commitments to the public and non-public sectors

We will stay committed to unswervingly consolidating and developing the public sector and unswervingly
encouraging, supporting, and guiding the development of the non-public sector. We will ensure that economic
entities under all forms of ownership have equal access to factors of production in accordance with the law,
compete in the market on an equal footing, and are protected by the law as equals, thus enabling them to
complement each other and develop side by side.

We will deepen reform of state capital and state-owned enterprises (SOEs), improving the institutions and
mechanisms for management and oversight, strengthening strategic coordination"between relevant"administrative
departments, and working to"refine the layout of the state-owned sector and adjust its structure. All this will help
state capital and SOEs get stronger, do better, and grow bigger,"with"their core functions"and core competitiveness
enhanced."We will clearly define the functions of different types of SOEs, improve the management of their primary
responsibilities and core business, and identify the key areas and orientations"for state capital investment. State
capital will be steered toward major industries and key fields that are vital to national security"and serve as the
lifeblood of the national economy, toward sectors such as public services, emergency response, and public welfare,
which concern our country's prosperity"and our people's wellbeing, and toward forward-looking and strategic
emerging industries. The institutional framework under which SOEs pursue original innovation"will be improved,
and the reform of state capital investment and operation"companies"will be continued. We will establish a system to
assess SOEs'"performance in fulfilling their strategic missions, refine the category-based SOE evaluation system,
and introduce value-added accounting in the state-owned sector. While promoting"independent operation of natural
monopoly businesses in sectors"such as energy, railway, telecommunications, water conservancy, and public
utilities, we will"advance"market-oriented reforms in the competitive areas of these sectors"and improve regulatory
institutions"and mechanisms.

We will continue to implement principles and policies that help foster a favorable environment"and create more
opportunities"for the development of the non-public sector. We will formulate a private sector promotion law. We will
do more to remove barriers to market access, work to see that the competitive areas of infrastructure are open to
market entities in a fair manner, and improve the long-term mechanism"by which private enterprises participate in
major national projects. We will support capable private enterprises in leading national initiatives to make
breakthroughs in major technologies and provide private"enterprises with greater access to major national scientific
research"infrastructure. We will refine financing support policies and systems for private enterprises to resolve the
difficulties they face in accessing affordable financing. We will improve the legal framework for the long-term

                                                                           Page 5 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

regulation of charges levied on enterprises"and for clearing overdue payments owed"to them. We will move faster
to set up a system for comprehensively evaluating private enterprises' credit status and refine the credit
enhancement system for small and medium private enterprises. We will support and guide private enterprises in
improving their governance structures and management systems, building up compliance capacity, and better
preventing corruption-related risks. We will strengthen ongoing and ex post oversight"and regulate administrative
inspections on private enterprises.

We will refine the modern corporate system with distinctive Chinese features"and"promote entrepreneurial spirit.
We will"support and guide enterprises of all types as they work to use resources and production factors more
efficiently, improve their operation and management, and fulfill their social responsibilities. Efforts will be
accelerated to foster a greater number of world-class enterprises.

(6) Building"a unified national market

We will work to see that the underlying institutions and rules of the market"are unified, that market regulation is
exercised in an impartial and unified manner, and that connectivity"between market facilities is built to high
standards. We will enhance"the binding force of fair competition review, take stronger action against monopolies
and unfair competition, and review"and abolish regulations and practices that impede the development of a unified
national market and fair competition. We will bring local regulations and institutions for attracting"investment"under
regulation and"strictly prohibit"policy incentives"in breach of laws and"regulations. We will establish"sound, unified,
and well-regulated public resource"trading platforms that facilitate information sharing. Such platforms will cover
public bidding as well as"procurement"by the government, public institutions, and SOEs and ensure full
transparency throughout the"project management"process."Overall market regulation capabilities"will be enhanced.
We will refine the national"system of standards and deepen reform of local systems for standards management.

The institutions and rules for production"factor markets will be improved to facilitate the smooth flow of production
factors, the efficient"allocation of all types of resources, and the full realization of market potential. We will develop
a unified market for urban and rural"land designated for construction. We will refine the underlying systems for
promoting well-regulated development of the capital market and foster an integrated national market for technology
and data. By refining the mechanisms whereby production"factors are priced primarily based on market supply"and
demand, we will prevent improper government interference in pricing. We will also develop better mechanisms to
ensure the contributions of production"factors, such as"labor, capital, land, knowledge, technology, management,
and data, are determined by the market and rewarded accordingly. Pricing reforms will be continued in sectors such
as water, energy, and transportation, and the tiered pricing mechanisms for household water, electricity, and natural
gas consumption"will be improved, as will the pricing mechanism for refined petroleum products.

We will improve the commodity distribution system, speed up the development of the Internet of Things, and further
refine the integrated framework of distribution"rules and standards to cut logistics"costs"throughout society. We will
deepen reform of the energy management system, build a unified national electricity market, and improve the
operation and coordination mechanisms"for oil and gas pipelines.

We will step up efforts to develop a complete domestic demand system. To this end, we will set up long-term
government investment mechanisms to support the development of major projects that are of fundamental"and far-
reaching importance and serve the public interest; refine the institutions and mechanisms that enable
government"investment to effectively drive nongovernmental investment; further reform the investment review and
approval system; improve the mechanisms for stimulating and facilitating nongovernmental investment; and create
a"market-driven"mechanism for ensuring self-sustaining growth"of effective investment."We will refine long-term
mechanisms for expanding consumption, reduce relevant"restrictions, boost public spending as necessary, and
actively promote the debut economy.

(7) Refining"the systems underpinning the market economy

We will improve the property rights system to ensure"law-based, equitable protection of the property rights of
economic entities under all forms of ownership"on a long-term basis and establish an efficient system for the

                                                                           Page 6 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

comprehensive management of intellectual property rights. We will refine the market information disclosure system
and put in place a commercial secrets protection system. All economic entities,"regardless of their form of
ownership, will be treated as equals when their property rights and legal interests are infringed upon or they infringe
upon the property rights and legal interests of others. We will also refine the punitive compensation"system. We will
work to bolster law enforcement"and justice administration to protect property rights, prevent and rectify
administrative"and criminal interference in economic disputes, and refine the mechanisms for identifying and
redressing wrongly adjudicated cases"involving"enterprises in accordance with the law.

We will refine the market access"system to ensure greater accessibility for new forms of business and new sectors.
We will deepen reform of the business registration system based on"subscribed registered capital"and ensure that
subscriptions are paid on time as stipulated by law. We will refine the enterprise bankruptcy"mechanism, explore
the establishment"of a bankruptcy"system for individual persons, move ahead with integrated reforms concerning
the deregistration"of enterprises, and improve the market exit system. We will also improve the social credit
system"and related oversight institutions.

III. Promoting High-Quality Economic Development

High-quality development is our primary task in building China into a modern socialist country in all respects. It is
essential that we apply the new development philosophy to steer reform"and"ground our"efforts in the new stage of
development. We must"deepen supply-side structural reform, improve incentive and constraint mechanisms"for
promoting high-quality development, and strive to create new growth drivers and strengths.

(8)"Improving the institutions and mechanisms for fostering new quality productive forces in line with local
conditions

We will work to facilitate revolutionary breakthroughs in technology, innovative allocation of production"factors, in-
depth industrial transformation and upgrading, and"the optimal combination"of laborers, means of labor, and
subjects of labor as well as their renewal and upgrading. All this will give rise to new industries, new"business
models,"and"new"growth drivers and promote the development"of"productive forces"that are characterized by high
technology, high performance, and high quality. A stronger push will be made to pursue innovation in key generic
technologies, cutting-edge technologies, modern engineering technologies, and disruptive technologies, and
institutional supply"will be boosted in new areas and arenas. We will establish a"mechanism for ensuring
funding"increases for industries"of the future, improve the policy and governance systems for promoting the
development of strategic industries such as next-generation information technology, artificial intelligence, aviation
and aerospace, new energy, new materials, high-end equipment, biomedicine, and quantum technology, and steer
emerging industries toward sound and orderly"development. National standards will be elevated to guide the
upgrading of traditional industries, and enterprises will also be encouraged to apply digital, intelligent, and green
technologies to transform and upgrade these sectors. We will impose tighter institutional constraints for
environmental protection"and safety.

Relevant rules and policies will be improved to accelerate the"formation of relations of production"that are more
compatible with new quality productive forces, and to channel various types of advanced production factors toward
the development of new quality productive forces. These steps will help realize a significant increase in total factor
productivity. We will encourage"and regulate the development of angel investment, venture capital, and private
equity investment, better leverage the role of government investment"funds, and work to promote"the development
of patient capital.

(9) Improving the systems for promoting full integration between the real economy and the digital economy

We will move faster to advance"new industrialization, promote the growth"and expansion of advanced
manufacturing clusters, and make the manufacturing"sector"higher-end, smarter, and more eco-friendly. We will set
up a number of"industrial generic technology platforms, accelerate the transformation of industrial models and
organizational forms of enterprises, and refine the institutions and mechanisms for enhancing our leading position in
industries where we excel. We will establish better operation"and oversight mechanisms"for"major industrial

                                                                           Page 7 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

investment funds"to ensure that capital is channeled toward our country's strategic needs. We will put in place a
funding mechanism to see that the share of manufacturing in the national economy remains at a desirable level. We
will also realize a reasonable"reduction in overall costs"and tax and fee"burdens"in the manufacturing sector.

We will move faster to establish institutions and mechanisms for promoting the development of the digital
economy"and refine the policy system for developing"the digital industry"and"transforming"traditional industries with
digital technologies. We will promote faster application of next-generation information technology"at all stages and
in all dimensions, develop"the Industrial Internet, and build digital industry clusters"with international
competitiveness."We will push forward the innovative"development of the platform"economy"while improving the
system for its routine regulation. We will build and put into operation national data infrastructure to promote data
sharing. We will work faster to set up a system for data property rights"concerning"ownership determination, market
transaction, proceeds distribution, and interests protection. We will"boost our governance and regulatory
capabilities"in relation to data security"and put in place a mechanism to ensure efficient, convenient, and
safe"cross-border data flows.

(10) Refining the institutions and mechanisms for developing the service sector

We will refine the policy system for supporting the development of the service sector, improve financial accounting,
and promote standardization in this sector. With a focus on key links, we will propel high-quality development of
producer services on a sector-by-sector basis, invigorate industrial internet"platforms, remove administrative
barriers"that impede trans-regional business operations, and promote the integrated development of producer
services. The mechanisms for accelerating the diversified development of consumer services will be improved. We
will refine the system of rules and regulations for intermediary service"agencies"to ensure"that they operate in an
honest and trustworthy way and fulfill their responsibilities in accordance"with the law.

(11) Improving the institutions and mechanisms for"modernizing"infrastructure

We will build a planning and standards system for new types of infrastructure and improve the mechanisms for
integrated utilization of such infrastructure. We will advance the digitalization of traditional infrastructure, diversify
investment and financing channels, and refine the coordination mechanisms for major infrastructure construction
projects. We will further reform the integrated transportation system, advancing reform of the railway system,
developing general aviation and the low-altitude economy, and optimizing the policy on toll highways. We will raise
the underwriting capacity of shipping insurers, help them provide better global services, and introduce new systems
and rules on the arbitration"of marine affairs. We will improve the mechanisms for the construction, operation, and
management of major water conservancy"projects.

(12) Improving the systems for enhancing the resilience and security of industrial and supply"chains

We will move faster to build industrial and supply chains that are self-supporting and risk-controllable, improve the
institutions and mechanisms for bolstering key industrial chains such as integrated circuits, industrial machine tools,
medical equipment, instruments, basic software,"industrial software, and advanced materials, and strive to secure
more technological breakthroughs that can be applied across entire industrial and supply chains. A mechanism will
be put in place to assess and respond to industrial and"supply chain risks. We will improve the coordination
mechanism for industries to be relocated domestically in a progressive"and"orderly manner and promote interest
sharing between regions of origin and destination. We will develop China's strategic hinterland"and ensure"backup
plans for key industries. Accelerated moves will be made to improve the system for national reserves. We will refine
the overall planning and linkage systems for the exploration,"production, supply,"storage, and sale of"strategic
mineral resources.

IV. Supporting All-Around Innovation

Education, science and technology, and talent function as basic and strategic underpinnings for Chinese
modernization. We must fully implement the strategy of"invigorating China through science and education, the
strategy of developing a quality workforce, and the innovation-driven development strategy, make coordinated

                                                                           Page 8 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

efforts to promote integrated reform"of institutions and mechanisms pertaining to education, science and
technology, and talent, and improve the new system for mobilizing resources nationwide, so as to boost the overall
performance of our country's innovation system.

(13) Deepening comprehensive reform in education

We will"work faster to build a high-quality education system"and advance coordinated"reforms in student training
methods, school operation models, management"systems,"and support mechanisms. We will improve the
mechanisms for"fostering virtue through education, introduce integrated reforms and new approaches in the
political education curriculum at all levels, from elementary school to university, and refine the systems for nurturing
capable young people with sound moral grounding, intellectual ability, physical vigor, aesthetic sensibility, and work
skills. We will increase the ability of teachers to impart knowledge and bring out the best in students"and
improve"the long-term mechanisms for enhancing their"professional integrity"and"conduct. In addition, we will
further educational assessment reforms. We will improve the layout of higher education and work faster to develop
world-class universities and strong disciplines with Chinese features. We will advance reforms of higher education
institutions"on a categorized basis"and develop discipline adjustment mechanisms and talent training models to
meet the needs of China's scientific and technological development and national strategies. This will see us making
extraordinary moves to plan for disciplines"and majors that are in urgent demand. We will also redouble efforts to
develop basic disciplines, emerging disciplines, and interdisciplinary subjects"and work harder to cultivate top
talent, with a strong emphasis"on fostering innovative capacity. We will refine the mechanisms"for facilitating
scientific and technological innovation in universities and ensure"more efficient application of advances. Scientific
and technological"education and humanities"education will be better coordinated. We"will work faster to build a
vocational"education"system"that is well-integrated"with both general education and industry"and improve the
mechanisms for student"internships and work experience. We will better guide and regulate the development of
private schools."We will promote high-standard opening up"in the education sector, and encourage first-rate foreign
universities of science and"engineering"to develop partner schools and programs in China."

With a view to optimizing the allocation of"educational resources"across regions, we will establish mechanisms for
aligning the supply of basic"public education services"with demographic changes. We will improve the mechanisms
for promoting high-quality, balanced development of compulsory education"and explore avenues for gradually
expanding the coverage of free education. The support mechanisms"for"preschool education, special needs
education, and specialized education"will be improved. We will also pursue the digitalization of education"to
facilitate the"building of a learning society"and provide greater support for lifelong"education.

(14) Deepening"scientific"and technological structural"reform

Targeting"the global frontiers of science and technology, the development of the economy, the major needs of the
country, and the health and safety of our people, we"will refine the mechanisms under which major scienti'c and
technological innovation"projects are organized in order to mount a concerted push for breakthroughs in core
technologies in key"fields. We"will see that the development of innovative capabilities, allocation"of innovation
factors, and ranks of innovators become more systematic, well-organized, and coordinated. To boost China's
strength in strategic science and technology,"we will refine the system of national laboratories"and better define the
roles and layout of our national research institutions, advanced-level"research universities, and leading high-tech
enterprises."We will promote"closer collaboration between the central and local levels, work for coordinated
development"of technological innovation"platforms of various kinds, and encourage and regulate the development
of new types of RandD institutions. Giving play to the guiding role of China's enormous market, we will see that
innovation resources are more effectively allocated and that our innovative capabilities are better organized, with a
view to promoting integrated advancements in technological and industrial innovation."We will establish risk
monitoring,"early warning, and response"systems"to safeguard science and technology security, and ensure self-
sufficiency in scientific and technological infrastructure. The management system for science and technology-
related social"groups will be refined."We will expand international science and technology exchanges and
cooperation, encourage"the establishment of international science and technology organizations"in China,

                                                                           Page 9 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

and"improve the management mechanisms whereby China's universities, research institutes, and science and
technology-related social"groups engage in specialized exchanges and cooperation with their foreign counterparts.

We will improve the management of science and technology plans"to ensure"that they are forward-looking"and play
a guiding role in basic research, interdisciplinary frontier areas, and key fields. We will see that basic research"is
conducted in a better organized way, raise the share of total science and technology"expenditure"that goes toward
basic research, and improve the basic research investment mechanisms to ensure support on both a competitive
and ongoing basis. Regions, enterprises, social organizations, and individuals"with the resources to support basic
research"will be encouraged to do so. We will also support researchers in diversifying their subjects for study and
encourage high-risk, high-reward basic research. We will advance reform of the science and technology evaluation
system, ensure that ethical standards"are adhered to, and rectify academic misconduct.

Reinforcing the principal role of enterprises in innovation,"we will establish mechanisms for fostering leading high-
tech enterprises"and"strengthen enterprise-led collaboration between industries, universities, and research
institutes. We will set up"a reserve fund system for corporate RandD"and back enterprises"that volunteer"to lead"or
participate in major national science and"technology"programs."Mechanisms will be rolled out to promote the
development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) that use specialized and sophisticated technologies to
produce novel and unique products. To encourage sci-tech SMEs to boost their RandD spending, we will raise the
rate of additional tax deductions for their RandD expenses."We will encourage and guide higher education
institutions and research institutes"in authorizing the use of their proprietary scientific and technological
advances"by micro,"small, and medium enterprises"on a "use first, pay later""basis.

We will refine the mechanisms for allocation, management, and utilization"of central government research
funds"and improve the institutions"for the implementation of"central government-funded science and"technology
programs and their management by specialized agencies."We will expand application of the contract system"for
government-funded research projects and"grant scientists a greater say in"deciding on technology"roadmaps,
spending funds, and allocating resources."We will establish a mechanism for adopting non-consensus
projects"based on real-name recommendations by experts. Public institutions"engaged in scientific research will be
allowed to implement a more flexible management system as compared to general public institutions, so that they
can explore approaches"to instituting corporate"management.

We will further reform the mechanisms for applying scientific and technological advances. We will enhance the
national technology"transfer system, move faster to plan"and build a number of"proof-of-concept and"pilot-scale
testing platforms, refine the policies for the initial application of"newly-developed equipment, materials, and
software, and"increase"government procurement of independently innovated"products. The pool of technology
managers"will be expanded."

Scientists and engineers will have"a greater say"in the distribution of gains from"the transfer of their scientific and
technological advances. We will establish a system to place scientific and technological outputs produced on
the"job under separate management"and"deepen reforms to grant researchers corresponding rights over
these"outputs. We will push ahead with the income distribution reform for universities and research institutes. A
greater number of eligible SOEs will be permitted to provide diverse"medium- and long-term incentives to
encourage innovation and creativity among their research personnel.

We will develop a financial system for scienti'c and technological innovation"to provide greater support for major
national science and"technology programs and"sci-tech SMEs. We will refine policies for supporting the investment
of long-term capital"in"projects at the early"stages, in small enterprises, over long time horizons, and in
advanced"and core technologies. We will improve the mechanisms"for spreading the risks associated"with the
development"of major technologies"and introduce a policy system for technology"insurance. We will facilitate
foreign equity investment"and venture capital investment in China.

(15) Deepening institutional reforms for talent development

                                                                          Page 10 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

Our policies on talent will become more proactive, open, and effective. To improve the mechanisms for nurturing
talent here at home, we will work faster to develop national hubs for high-caliber personnel and platforms for
attracting and pooling talent. We will step up efforts to build a contingent of personnel with expertise of strategic
importance, with a focus on cultivating science strategists, top-notch scientists and innovation teams, outstanding
engineers, master craftsmen, and highly-skilled workers, while also working to improve the performance of all types
of talent. We will develop a first-rate industrial technical workforce. We will improve the mechanisms for enabling
orderly flows of talent to promote a more rational distribution across regions and foster closer personnel
collaboration"between the eastern, central, and western regions. We will also enhance the"mechanisms for
identifying, selecting, and training young innovators and ensure better pay and benefits for our young scientists and
engineers. Relevant systems will be refined to ensure that researchers can concentrate on research.

We will enhance the incentive mechanisms for talent, granting more say to employers and creating a more
accommodating environment for talent development. We will put in place a personnel assessment system based on
innovation-related capability, performance, outcomes, and contributions. We will open up channels to enable flows
of personnel between universities and research institutes on the one hand and enterprises on the other. We will
improve the support mechanisms for recruiting talent from overseas and create internationally competitive
personnel systems. We will also explore avenues for establishing an immigration system for highly-skilled
personnel.

V. Improving Macroeconomic Governance

Sound macro regulation, along with effective governance by the government, is essential for ensuring that we can
fully leverage the institutional strengths of our socialist market economy. It is, therefore, vital that we improve our
macro regulation systems. We must pursue coordinated reforms in the fiscal, tax, financial, and other major sectors
and work to enhance the consistency of macro policy orientation.

(16) Improving the national strategic planning system and policy coordination mechanisms

We will develop mechanisms for formulating and executing national"strategies and make a stronger push to fully
integrate all major strategies, so that they can provide better macro guidance and overall coordination. The systems
for national economic and social development planning will be improved. This will see us enhancing the
mechanisms for the alignment and implementation of plans, better harnessing the strategic guiding role"of national
development plans, bolstering the basic role of territorial space plans, and reinforcing the supporting role"of subject-
specific plans and regional plans. We will also improve the system by which experts participate in decision-making
on public issues.

To promote the implementation of national development plans and major strategies, we will foster greater synergy
between our fiscal, monetary, industrial, pricing, and employment policies, improving the allocation of newly
acquired resources and adjusting the mix of existing resources. We will explore the introduction of national macro
balance sheet management. Both economic and non-economic policies will be evaluated to ensure that they are
consistent with the macro policy orientation. The expectations management mechanism will be improved. We will
refine the statistical indicators accounting system to better support high-quality development, expanding the
coverage of statistics to include more new forms of economy and new sectors. We will promote the development of
statistical infrastructure for industrial entities, optimize statistical methods for both headquarters and branches, and
gradually work toward compiling statistics based on the places where market entities conduct their business
activities. Steps will be taken to improve the mechanisms for international coordination"on macro policies.

(17) Deepening reform of the fiscal and tax systems

We will further improve the budget system and strengthen unified management of all fiscal resources and budgets.
All revenues generated"on the basis of the exercise of administrative power, government credit, and state-owned
resources and assets will be placed under government budget management. We will improve the budgeting"and
performance assessment systems for state capital operations and strengthen fiscal support for major national
strategic tasks and basic public wellbeing. We will enhance macro guidance on budgeting and fiscal policies. We

                                                                          Page 11 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

will strengthen performance management for public services, with"a focus on conducting ex ante"evaluations of
their functions. Reforms for zero-based budgeting will be advanced. We will unify budget allocation powers, make
budget management more unified and standardized, and take steps to boost budget transparency and enhance
budget oversight. We will improve the system for comprehensive government"financial reporting based on accrual
accounting.

The tax structure will be improved"to make taxation systems"more conducive to high-quality development, social
fairness, and the building of a unified market. We will also look into approaches for better adapting these systems to
new forms of business. Fully implementing the principle of legality of taxation, we will regulate policies on tax breaks
and improve the support mechanisms for key sectors and links. We will refine the system of direct taxes, improve
the personal income tax system which is based on both adjusted gross income and specific"income types, regulate
taxation policies on incomes generated from business operations, capital, and property, and unify tax rates for
incomes earned through work. Reform of the tax collection and administration system will be deepened.

We will establish a fiscal relationship between the central and local governments that features well-defined powers
and responsibilities and the appropriate"allocation of resources, with an optimum"balance between regions. To
place more fiscal resources at the disposal"of local"governments, we will expand the sources of tax revenue at the
local level and grant greater authority for tax management to local governments as appropriate. To improve the
system of transfer"payments, we will overhaul special transfer payments and increase the scale"of general transfer
payments. These will help ensure that the fiscal resources of prefecture- and county-level governments are
commensurate"with their powers. We will establish incentive and constraint mechanisms through transfer payments
to promote high-quality development. We will take steps to move excise tax collection further down the production-
to-consumption chain, with the power of collection steadily being passed to local governments. We will improve the
value-added tax credit refund policy and free up the channels for making tax deductions. The ratio for taxes shared
between the central and local governments will be optimized. We will look into rolling the urban maintenance and
construction tax, education surcharges, and local education surcharges into one single local surtax. Local
governments will have the authority"to set the rate for this tax within a predetermined range. We will
appropriately"expand the scope of use for funds raised from the sale of"local government special-purpose bonds,
permitting a greater share of such funds to be used as capital in more sectors and on a larger scale. The systems
for managing government debt will be improved. We will establish"a system for monitoring and regulating all local
government debt as well as long-term mechanisms for preventing and defusing hidden debt risks. We will move
faster to reform and transform local government financing platforms. In regulating the management"of non-tax
revenue, we will delegate, as appropriate, some management authority to local governments and allow them to
tailor their"practices to local conditions.

The central government will hold more fiscal powers as appropriate"and raise the proportion of central government
expenditure accordingly. In principle, the expenditures commensurate"with such powers should be allocated from
the central government, and such powers to be delegated to local governments should be reduced. No
requirements for supporting funds from local governments in violation of regulations shall be made. When it is
necessary to delegate fiscal powers to local governments, the relevant funds should be arranged through special
transfer payments.

(18) Deepening reform of the financial system

We will move faster to improve the central bank system and the monetary policy transmission mechanism. We will
actively develop technology finance, green finance, inclusive finance, pension finance, and digital finance"and work
to ensure quality financial services for major strategies, key fields, and weak links. We will refine the role and
governance of financial institutions and the incentive and constraint mechanisms for ensuring that they serve the
real economy. We will diversify equity financing, step up the development of multilevel bond markets, and increase
the proportion of direct financing. We will optimize the state-owned financial capital management system.

We will improve"the functions of the capital market"to give balanced weight to investment and financing. We will
prevent risks and tighten regulation to promote the sound and stable development"of the capital market. We will

                                                                          Page 12 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

facilitate the entry of long-term capital into the market. We will improve the overall quality of listed companies,
strengthen relevant regulation and delisting systems, and establish long-term mechanisms to enhance the
underlying stability of the capital market. We will improve the mechanisms for regulating and constraining the
behaviors of major shareholders and actual"controllers. We will optimize dividend incentive and constraint
mechanisms for listed companies and improve the mechanisms for protecting investors. We will encourage regional
equity markets to align their rules and implement unified standards.

A financial law"will be"formulated. We will improve the financial regulatory system"to ensure that all financial
activities are placed under regulation in accordance with the law, strengthen regulatory responsibility and
accountability"systems, and improve regulatory"coordination between the central and local levels. We will build
secure and efficient financial infrastructure, unify the rules and systems for registration, custody, settlement, and
liquidation for the financial market, establish binding constraints for defusing risks at an early stage, and build a
robust system to effectively fend off and control systemic risks and ensure"financial stability. We will improve the
mechanisms for protecting financial consumers and cracking"down on illegal financial activities"and establish"a
firewall for industrial and financial capital. We will promote high-standard opening up of the financial sector, steadily
and prudently advance the internationalization of the RMB, and develop offshore RMB markets. We will make
steady progress in the RandD and application of digital RMB and move faster to build Shanghai into an international
financial center.

We will improve the management model based on pre-establishment national treatment plus a negative list"and
support qualified"foreign capital institutions in participating in our financial service trials. We will expand the
connectivity between"domestic and overseas financial markets in a steady and prudent way and improve the
qualified foreign institutional investor system. We will push forward the development of a homegrown, controllable
cross-border payment system and strengthen financial security mechanisms as we open our doors wider to the
outside world. We will establish a"system for the unified monitoring and oversight of all foreign"debt. We will actively
participate in international financial governance.

(19) Improving mechanisms for implementing the coordinated regional development strategy

We will develop a regional economic layout and a territorial space system characterized by complementarity
between different regions and territorial spaces."We will improve the institutional and policy frameworks for opening
up a new vista"in the large-scale development of the western region, achieving"new breakthroughs in the full
revitalization of the Northeast, accelerating"the rise of the central region, and encouraging"the eastern region to
modernize more quickly. We will enable regions like the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region,"the Yangtze River Delta, and
the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area"to better play their roles as engines of high-quality
development and improve the mechanisms for the development of the Yangtze Economic Belt"and the ecological
protection and high-quality development in the Yellow River basin. We will move forward with the high-standard and
high-quality development of the Xiong'an New Area. We will push for solid"progress in developing"the Chengdu-
Chongqing economic zone. We will improve the system of institutions for functional zoning"and strengthen
mechanisms to support optimal development of territorial spaces. We will improve integrated regional development
mechanisms, build new mechanisms for cooperative development across administrative divisions, and deepen
industrial collaboration between the eastern, central, and western regions. The institutions and mechanisms for
promoting the development of the marine economy will be enhanced.

VI. Promoting Integrated Urban-Rural Development

Integrated urban"and rural development"is essential to Chinese modernization. We must pursue coordinated
progress in new industrialization, new urbanization, and all-around rural revitalization, facilitate"greater urban-rural
integration in planning, development, and governance across the board, and promote equal exchanges and two-
way flows of production factors between urban and rural areas, so as to narrow the disparities between the"two and
promote their shared prosperity and development.

(20) Improving the institutions and mechanisms for advancing"new urbanization

                                                                          Page 13 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

We will put in place mechanisms to foster positive interactions"between the processes of industrial upgrading,
population concentration, and urban development. We will implement the systems for allowing"people to
obtain"household registration and access basic public services in their place of permanent residence. We will push
to see that eligible"people who have moved"to cities from rural areas"enjoy the same rights as registered local
residents with regard to social insurance, housing support, and access to compulsory education for their children
living with them. The process of granting"permanent urban residency to these people will also be accelerated. We
will protect"the lawful land rights and interests of former rural residents who now hold permanent urban residency,
protect, in accordance with the law,"their rights to contract rural land, to use their rural residential land, and to share
in the proceeds from rural collective undertakings, and explore avenues to facilitate voluntary, paid transfers of
these rights.

We will continue to follow the principle that cities should"be built by the people and for the people. We will improve
urban planning to see that cities of different sizes and small towns develop in coordination with each other to form
efficient"and closely knit"layouts. We will deepen reform of the urban development, operation, and governance
systems and step up efforts to change the development models of cities. We will work to create new systems for
smart and efficient governance in super-large and mega cities"and establish institutions and mechanisms for the
highly-integrated development of cities"in metropolitan areas. We will deepen reforms to grant super-large towns
economic and social management rights that are commensurate with their populations and economic sizes. We will
develop sustainable urban renewal"models, along with relevant policies and regulations, and strengthen the
building of underground utility tunnels"and the upgrading of old pipelines. These efforts will help make our cities
safer and more resilient.

(21) Consolidating and improving the basic rural operation system

We will move forward with well-organized trials to extend rural land"contracts by"another 30 years upon the
expiration"of the second-round contracts, deepen the reform to separate the ownership rights, contract rights, and
management rights"of contracted land, and develop appropriately scaled agricultural operations. We will improve
the framework for agricultural operations and refine the pricing mechanism for the transfer of contracted land
management rights. We will encourage farmers to engage in cooperative operations and see that our policies for
supporting new types of agribusiness"serve to increase rural incomes. We will develop a system of convenient"and
efficient"commercial agricultural services. We will develop new types of rural collective economies, establish related
operating mechanisms featuring clearly defined property rights and rational income distribution, and ensure that
farmers enjoy more"adequate property rights"and interests.

(22) Improving supporting systems to strengthen"agriculture, benefit farmers, and enrich"rural areas

Continuing to prioritize agricultural and rural development, we will improve the investment mechanisms for rural
revitalization. We will work to expand county industries that benefit local people, build"a diversified food supply
system, and foster new industries and new forms of business"in rural areas. We will optimize the system of
agricultural subsidy policies"and develop multi-tiered agricultural insurance schemes. We will refine the regular
mechanisms for preventing rural residents from lapsing or relapsing into poverty and establish a system of multi-
tiered and categorized support for low-income rural residents and underdeveloped areas. We will improve the long-
term mechanisms for managing assets formed with government inputs in the process of poverty
alleviation."Applying"the experience gained from the Green Rural Revival Program in Zhejiang Province, we will
refine the long-term mechanisms for promoting all-around rural revitalization.

We will work faster to improve the mechanisms for ensuring the incomes of grain growers"and see that the prices of
grain and other major agricultural products"remain at a reasonable level. We will coordinate efforts to establish an
inter-provincial mechanism for major grain-purchasing areas to compensate major grain-producing areas"so as to
make substantive"headway in incentivizing"the latter. We will make coordinated progress in reforming the
institutions and mechanisms related to the purchase and sale of grain and the management of grain reserves and
develop new regulatory models in this regard. The long-term mechanisms for conserving grain and other types of
food will be improved.

                                                                          Page 14 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

(23) Deepening reform of the land system

We will reform and refine the system for offsetting cultivated land that has been put to other uses, manage all types
of arable land"occupation in a unified manner, and improve the acceptance inspection"mechanism to make sure
that newly-added arable land"is of an equivalent quantity and quality. We will improve the mechanisms for
developing, verifying, managing, and protecting high-standard cropland. We will refine"the management"system for
ensuring that arable land is used for planting basic crops. We will allow rural households to put houses under their
legal ownership to good use by leasing them out, contributing them in the form of shares, and engaging in
cooperative ventures. We will promote orderly reforms for market-based transfers of rural collective land designated
for business construction and improve the mechanisms for distributing"returns realized from the appreciation of
land.

We will optimize land management, refining relevant systems so that they are efficiently aligned with macro policies
and regional development needs. We will give priority to the reasonable land needs of leading industries and major
projects, with a view to creating greater development space for regions with competitive"edge. We will establish a
coordination mechanism to link increases in urban construction"land quotas for cities with the growth of their
permanent residents. We will explore mechanisms for using contiguous land that has been reclaimed and upgraded
by the government"to offset arable land being used by"specific projects and regions. We will optimize land use for
urban industry and commerce"and accelerate the development of the secondary market"for construction land. We
will promote mixed land development and use and allow for changes in land use purposes when appropriate,
ensuring that idle and inefficiently"used land can be put to better use. Targeted steps will be taken to address land
use problems in various types of industrial parks. Policies will be formulated for extending land use rights for
industrial and commercial purposes and for renewing them upon expiration.

VII. Pursuing High-Standard Opening Up

Opening up is a defining feature of Chinese modernization. We must remain committed to the basic state policy of
opening to the outside world"and continue to promote reform through opening up. Leveraging"the strengths of
China's enormous"market, we will enhance our capacity for opening up while expanding international cooperation
and develop new institutions"for a higher-standard open economy.

(24) Steadily expanding institutional opening up

We will promote alignment with high-standard international economic and trade rules"and harmonize rules,
regulations, management, and standards relating to property rights protection, industrial"subsidies, environmental
standards, labor protection, government procurement, e-commerce, the financial sector, and other areas, in an
effort to create an institutional environment that is transparent, stable, and predictable. We will seize the initiative by
opening China's commodity, services, capital, and labor markets wider to the outside world in an orderly manner
and unilaterally"opening our doors wider to the world's least developed countries. We will further reform institutions
and mechanisms for foreign aid to realize full-chain management.

We will safeguard the WTO-centered multilateral trading system, actively participate in the reform of global
economic governance, and provide more global public goods. We will expand our globally-oriented network of high-
standard free trade areas, establish compliance mechanisms that are aligned with prevailing international rules, and
optimize the environment for opening up and cooperation.

(25) Deepening the foreign trade structural"reform

We will better coordinate trade policies with fiscal, tax, financial, and industrial policies, create a set of systems and
policies to support efforts to build China into a strong trading nation, step up reforms to integrate domestic and
foreign trade, and actively respond to the trends of digital and green trade. We will develop new regulatory
approaches for customs clearance, taxation, and foreign exchange and foster an institutional environment that is
conducive to the development of new models and forms"of trade. We will develop digital trade in an innovative
manner and promote the development of integrated pilot zones"for cross-border e-commerce. We will build

                                                                          Page 15 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

commodity trading centers and global distribution centers, support various types of entities in developing logistics
facilities overseas in a well-ordered way, and facilitate the"development of international logistics hubs, as well as
hubs for the distribution of commodities and resources, in areas where conditions allow. The mechanisms for
preventing and controlling trade risks will be improved, and our export control framework and trade remedy"system
will be refined.

We will adopt innovative measures to boost trade in services and fully"apply the negative list for cross-border trade
in services. We will promote comprehensive trials and demonstrations for expanding opening up of the service
sector"and encourage specialized service organizations to enhance their capacity for providing international
services. We will work faster to promote offshore trade and develop new types of transactions in offshore
international trade. We will set up sound systems for cross-border financial services and diversify the supply of
financial products and services.

(26) Further reforming the management systems for inward and outward investment

We will foster a first-rate"business environment that is market-oriented, law-based, and internationalized"and
protect the rights and interests of foreign investors in accordance with the law. We will expand the catalog of
encouraged industries for foreign investment,"appropriately shorten"the negative list for foreign investment, remove
all market access restrictions in the"manufacturing"sector, and promote wider opening with regard to
telecommunications, the internet, education, culture, medical services, and other sectors in a well-conceived way.
We will further reform the institutions and mechanisms for promoting foreign investment, ensure national treatment
for foreign-funded enterprises in terms of access to factors of production, license application, standards setting, and
government procurement, and support them in collaborating with upstream"and downstream"enterprises in
industrial chains. We will improve relevant measures to make it more convenient for people from outside the
mainland to live, receive medical services, and make payments on the mainland. We will refine the institutions and
mechanisms for promoting and protecting Chinese investment abroad, improve the management and service
systems for outward investment, and facilitate international cooperation in industrial and supply chains.

(27) Optimizing the layout for regional opening up

We will consolidate the leading role of eastern coastal areas in our opening up endeavors,"promote further
opening"up in the central, western, and northeastern regions, and move faster toward all-around opening up
through links running eastward and westward, across land,"and over sea."To leverage the strengths of areas along
the coasts, borders, rivers, and major transportation routes, we will optimize the division of functions for opening up
among different regions in order to develop a diverse array of pacesetters for opening up. We will implement the
strategy for upgrading"pilot free trade zones"and encourage these zones to engage in pioneering and integrated
explorations. The development of the Hainan Free Trade Port"will be accelerated.

Harnessing the institutional strengths of the"One Country, Two Systems policy, we will work to consolidate and
enhance Hong Kong's status as an international financial, shipping, and trade center, support Hong Kong and
Macao in building themselves into international hubs for high-caliber talent, and improve relevant mechanisms to
see the two regions playing a greater role in China's opening to the outside world. We will encourage cooperation
between Guangdong, Hong Kong, and Macao in the Greater Bay Area by promoting"closer alignment of rules and
mechanisms. We will improve relevant institutions and policies to promote economic and cultural exchanges and
cooperation across the Taiwan Strait and advance integrated cross-Strait development.

(28) Improving the mechanisms for high-quality cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative

We will continue to implement the Belt and Road Science, Technology, and Innovation Cooperation Action Plan and
redouble efforts to develop multilateral platforms for cooperation in green development, the digital economy,
artificial intelligence, energy, taxation, finance, disaster mitigation, and other areas. We will work to improve the
integrated framework for land, sea, air, and cyberspace"connectivity"and build a multidimensional"network to
connect countries along the Belt and Road. We will make coordinated efforts to advance both major
signature"projects and "small but beautiful""public welfare projects.

                                                                          Page 16 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

VIII. Advancing Whole-Process People's Democracy

Developing whole-process people's democracy"is integral to Chinese modernization. We must firmly stay on the
path of socialist"political advancement with Chinese characteristics and uphold and improve our country's
foundational, basic, and important political systems. We will develop diverse forms of democracy at all levels and
ensure that the principle of the people running the country is manifested in concrete and visible ways in all aspects
of China's political"and social activities.

(29) Strengthening the institutions through which the people run the country

We must uphold, improve, and implement"the system of people's congresses"to good effect. We will improve the
systems"under which the people's congresses conduct oversight of the administrative, supervisory, adjudicatory,
and procuratorial organs, refine the Law on the Oversight by the Standing Committees of People's Congresses"at
All Levels and the mechanisms for its implementation, and strengthen"the examination and oversight of government
budgets and final accounts"by people's congresses as well as their oversight of state-owned asset and government
debt management. We will improve the rules of procedure for people's congresses and their debate, assessment,
discussion, and hearing systems. We will see that deputies to people's congresses reach out to the public on a
greater variety of issues and in more diverse"ways"and enhance the working mechanisms for drawing on public
opinion and pooling the wisdom of the people. The"roles of people's organizations,"such as trade unions, Chinese
Communist Youth League organizations, and women's federations, will be brought into play in connecting with and
serving the people.

(30) Improving the mechanisms for consultative democracy

We will give play to the role of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) as a specialized
consultative body. We will refine the mechanisms that enable in-depth consultations and interactions, the full
expression of opinions, and the formation of broad consensus. We will strengthen the mechanisms through which
the"CPPCC reports on social conditions and public opinions, stays in contact with the"people, and provides them
with services. Moves will also be made to refine the mechanisms that facilitate democratic oversight by the"CPPCC.

The system of consultative democracy will be improved, with the introduction of more diverse forms of consultation.
We will enhance the institutional platforms through which consultations are carried out by political parties, people's
congresses, government departments, CPPCC committees, people's organizations, communities, and social
organizations, and strengthen coordination between the various channels of consultation. We will improve the
mechanisms for conducting"consultations prior to decision making and during the implementation"of decisions.
Improvements will also be made to the mechanisms for adopting, implementing, and providing feedback on the
consultation"outcomes.

(31) Enhancing democracy at the"primary level

We will improve the mechanisms"for conducting"community-level self-governance under the leadership of Party
organizations"at the primary level. We will"refine the institutional and working systems for primary-level
democracy"and create more channels to allow for the well-ordered participation"of various primary-level
organizations and local people in the governance of their communities. We will enhance the institutions for keeping
the public informed. We will improve the democratic management systems in enterprises and public institutions,
which generally take the form of workers' congresses. In addition, more effective ways will be developed to ensure
that enterprise employees can participate in management.

(32) Building a broad united front

We will improve the policies and measures for facilitating the united front's political role in rallying the support of the
people and pooling their strength. We will uphold, develop, and improve China's new type of political party system.
We will see that people from outside the Party can better play their roles and improve the systems for building up
the ranks of non-CPC representatives. A law on promoting ethnic solidarity and progress will be formulated, and we

                                                                          Page 17 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

will take steps to improve the institutions and mechanisms for forging a strong sense of community for the"Chinese
nation so as to further strengthen"our national cohesion. We will make systematic"efforts to ensure that religions in
China are Chinese in orientation"and establish a more solid legal footing for the governance of religious affairs. We
will improve the mechanisms for providing political guidance to non-CPC intellectuals and people from emerging
social groups. We will"continue working to cultivate a cordial and clean relationship between government and
business across the board and improve the working mechanisms for facilitating"the healthy development of the
non-public sector and those working in"it."We will refine the mechanisms for work related to Hong Kong, Macao,
Taiwan, and overseas Chinese affairs.

IX. Promoting Socialist Rule of Law with Chinese Characteristics

The rule of law provides"an important guarantee for"Chinese modernization. We must ensure full implementation
of"the Constitution and"uphold its authority, coordinate the reforms to promote sound legislation, law enforcement,
administration of justice, and observance of the law, and improve the mechanisms for ensuring that all are equal
before the law, so as to promote socialist rule of law, uphold social fairness and justice, and see that all work of the
state is carried out under the rule of law.

(33) Deepening reforms in"legislation

The socialist legal system with Chinese characteristics"centered on the Constitution will be improved. We will
refine"the systems for ensuring full implementation of"the Constitution"and establish a system"for reporting on its
implementation. We will improve the legislative framework under which Party committees exercise leadership,
people's congresses play a principal role, government departments provide support, and various sectors of society
get involved. We will make sure that steps to enact, revise, abolish, interpret, and codify laws"are well-coordinated
and work to bolster legislation in key, emerging, and foreign-related areas. We"will improve"both the constitutional
review system and the record and review system for normative documents. These efforts will ensure that the quality
of legislation further improves. We will explore cross-regional collaboration on legislation. We will improve
mechanisms for aligning and coordinating Party rules and regulations with state laws and regulations. A unified
national information platform for laws, regulations, and other normative documents will be created.

(34) Advancing law-based government administration

We will keep working to establish a sound legal footing for government institutions, functions, powers, procedures,
and responsibilities. We will make government services more standardized, procedure-based, and accessible"and
improve the"integrated national online platform for government services. We will improve the legality review
mechanism for major decisions"and normative documents and conduct a more thorough review of the legislative
work of the government. We will"push forward with structural reforms"regarding"administrative law enforcement,
improving institutions and mechanisms for coordinated law enforcement"at the community level and for conducting
oversight over enforcement."We will refine the system of standards on administrative discretion"for matters such as
administrative penalties and work to align the administrative law enforcement standards of different regions.
Improvements will be made to the system"for coordinating administrative and criminal penalties, the institutions and
mechanisms for administrative"reconsideration,"and"the administrative adjudication"system. We will refine both the
vertical management system and the tiered management system at the local level"to promote closer coordination
and collaboration between institutions under vertical"management and local governments. Prudent steps will be
taken to optimize the institutions in counties with small populations. We will further reform the management system
in development zones. We will improve the structure and layout of public institutions to ensure that they better serve
the public interest.

(35) Improving the institutions and mechanisms for impartial law enforcement and administration"of justice

We will"refine"the institutions and mechanisms for ensuring that"supervisory organs, public security organs,
procuratorates,"courts,"and"administrative departments for justice all fulfill their respective functions and that
powers of supervision, investigation, procuratorate, adjudication, and enforcement complement and constrain each
other. This will ensure that law enforcement and judicial activities are subject to effective"checks and oversight at

                                                                          Page 18 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

every link and stage in the process. We will deepen the reforms to separate adjudicatory and enforcement powers,
improve the national system for law enforcement, and see that the parties concerned, the procuratorates, and the
public exercise oversight throughout the process of enforcement activities. We will improve the system for providing
legal remedies and protection during the course of law enforcement and judicial activities as well as the system for
granting state compensation. We will increase the"transparency of judicial work and improve relevant procedures.
We will also enforce and enhance judicial accountability."The establishment of special courts"will be regulated."We
will further the reforms related to the jurisdiction of administrative"cases where jurisdiction is defined by subject
matter, exercised in a centralized manner, or established in another region. We will develop institutions and
mechanisms for coordinated, efficient policing, advance the reform of staffing management in public security organs
at the local level, and continue to reform the management systems in the civil aviation public security organs and
the anti-smuggling departments of customs authorities. We will standardize the management of police"auxiliaries.

Adhering to the correct outlook on human rights, we will provide more effective human rights protection through law
enforcement and administration of justice. We will improve the working mechanisms for ex ante review, ongoing
oversight, and ex post redress and refine the system for coercive measures that concern the personal rights of
citizens"as well as the sealing, sequestering,"and"freezing"of assets. We will investigate and prosecute, in
accordance with the law, the abuse of power to bend the law for personal gain, illegal detention, the use of torture
to extort"confessions, and other similar offences. We will see that lawyer defense is provided in all criminal cases
and introduce a system to seal records for minor offences.

(36) Improving the mechanisms for building a law-based society

We will improve the public legal services system covering both urban and rural populations and further reform the
systems related to lawyers, notarization, arbitration, mediation, and forensic evidence"management. We will adopt
more effective methods to raise public awareness"of the rule of law and refine the practice-oriented approach"to law
school education. We will better protect the rights and interests of minors, step up efforts"to prevent and control
juvenile delinquency, and formulate special regulations on correction and education.

(37) Strengthening the rule of law in foreign-related affairs

We will establish mechanisms for taking a holistic approach to promoting legislation, law enforcement,
administration of justice, observance of the law, legal services, and the training of legal professionals for foreign-
related affairs. We will improve the system of foreign-related"laws and regulations"and the systems"for enforcing
the rule of law"and work to deepen international cooperation in law enforcement and administration of justice. We
will refine the judicial system that allows the parties in foreign-related civil lawsuits to lawfully enter into jurisdictional
agreements and choose applicable extraterritorial laws. We will improve the arbitration and mediation system for
international commercial disputes and cultivate world-class arbitration organizations and law firms. We will actively
participate in the formulation of international rules.

X. Deepening Reform in the Cultural Sector

Chinese modernization is the modernization of material and cultural-ethical advancement. We must boost our
cultural confidence and work to develop"advanced socialist culture, promote"revolutionary culture, and carry
forward fine traditional Chinese culture. We must move faster to stay abreast of new dramatic developments in
information technology, cultivate a vast pool of talented personnel in the field of culture, and ignite"the cultural
creativity of the entire nation.

(38) Improving the responsibility system for ideological work

We will refine the working systems for arming all Party members, educating the people, and guiding our practice
with the Party's new theories. We will improve"the system under which the theoretical study groups"of"Party
committees (leading Party members groups)"hold regular study sessions, as well as the system for theoretical and
political work. We will develop new approaches in the project to study and develop Marxist theory"and promote
innovation in philosophy and social sciences with a view to building a Chinese"intellectual system"in this field."We

                                                                          Page 19 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

will improve the spokesperson system, develop content production and communication mechanisms as well as
assessment systems for all forms of media, and promote a systemic transformation in mainstream media. We will
improve the mechanisms for guiding public opinion and coordinating responses to public opinion incidents.

Activities to foster ideals and convictions"will be carried out on a regular and institutionalized basis. We will enhance
the systems and mechanisms for cultivating"and practicing"the core socialist values. We will improve and innovate
working mechanisms for raising"awareness, applying"principles, and developing"initiatives"aimed at
promoting"cultural-ethical progress. We will launch projects to enhance social etiquette and civility in rural areas.
We will refine the mechanisms for publicizing"heroes and role models and encouraging"people to learn from them
and work to develop new mechanisms for promoting patriotism and organizing themed"public activities, in an effort
to create a social"atmosphere in which people look up to heroes, pay tribute"to martyrs, and strive to become
pioneers. We will establish"a system for carrying"forward traditional Chinese"virtues"and improve the institutions
and mechanisms for cultivating"social morality, work ethics, family values, and personal integrity. We will refine the
long-term mechanisms"for promoting integrity and credibility"and provide public education and guidance so that all
members of society readily abide"by the law"and respect public order"and moral standards. We will take firm steps
to oppose money worship, hedonism,"egocentricity,"and historical nihilism. We will develop mechanisms to provide
online theoretical and ethical education in a differentiated and targeted manner. We will establish better
mechanisms for addressing serious ethical problems"in a coordinated way and improve the long-
term"mechanisms"for combating"pornography"and illegal"publications.

(39) Refining"the mechanisms for supplying"cultural services and products

We will"improve the system of public cultural services, establishing mechanisms for channeling quality cultural
resources directly to the community level, improving the mechanisms through which nongovernmental actors
participate in the supply of public cultural services, and advancing reforms to separate the ownership and use rights
for public cultural facilities. In the cultural sector, we will continue with the reform of"state capital and SOEs, deepen
the internal reform of public institutions"on a categorized basis, and improve"the mechanisms for developing theater
troupes.

We will remain committed to"people-centered cultural creation and stay focused on both literary and artistic
production and talent cultivation, and on both producing fine works and fostering a favorable environment for
creation. On this basis, we will improve the working mechanisms for serving, guiding, and organizing literary and
artistic creation"and production. We will refine"the systems for cultural industries and markets"as well as"economic
policies"concerning the development of the cultural sector. We will explore effective mechanisms for
integrating"culture with science and technology"and step up our efforts to foster"new forms of cultural business. We
will further reform the systems for culture-related government review"and"approval and record"keeping"so as to
strengthen ongoing and ex"post"oversight. Comprehensive governance of the cultural and recreational
industries"will be advanced.

We will establish coordination agencies for preserving and passing down our cultural heritage and put in place
an"inspection"system for"cultural heritage protection to facilitate systematic protection and unified supervision. We
will institute a system of the defining symbols of Chinese culture and refine institutions and mechanisms for
promoting the full integration of culture and tourism. We will improve the public fitness services"system"and carry
out reforms to"refine the management systems and operating mechanisms for"competitive sports.

(40) Improving"the system for comprehensive cyberspace governance

We"will deepen reform of the internet management"system, combine the functions of online content development
and management, and promote integrated management of media communication and online public opinion. We will
improve the mechanisms for developing and managing generative artificial intelligence. We will step up the law-
based governance"of cyberspace, improve the long-term governance mechanisms for the online environment, and
refine the system for protecting minors in cyberspace.

(41) Establishing a"more effective international communication system

                                                                          Page 20 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

We will move ahead with restructuring China's international communication"framework and deepen the reform and
innovation of our mainstream media's international communication"mechanisms in a bid"to accelerate the
development of a multi-channel and multi-dimensional architecture."We will move faster to develop China's
discourse and narrative systems with a view to making our international communication more effective.
Mechanisms for promoting the implementation"of the Global Civilization"Initiative will be established. We will work
to facilitate"both outbound and inbound visits to promote broader international people-to-people exchanges and
cooperation.

XI. Ensuring and Improving the People's Wellbeing

Ensuring"and enhancing the"people's wellbeing in the course of development"is one of the major tasks of Chinese
modernization. In line with the principle of doing everything within our means, we will refine the systems"of basic
public services, with the focus on providing"inclusive services, meeting"essential needs, and providing a cushion for
those most in need. We will strive to resolve the most practical problems that are of the greatest and most direct
concern to the people so as to meet people's aspirations for a better life.

(42) Improving"the income distribution system

We will build an institutional framework under which primary"distribution, redistribution, and tertiary distribution are
well coordinated and mutually complementary."We will work to raise the share of personal income in the distribution
of"national income and give more weight to work remuneration in primary distribution."We will improve"the
mechanisms for determining wages, ensuring that they are increased at a reasonable"rate and that they are paid in
full, and refine"the policy system for distribution based on factors of production. We will improve the redistribution
mechanisms such as taxation, social security, and transfer payments. We will support the development of public
interest activities and charities.

We will keep income distribution and the means of accumulating wealth well-regulated, open more avenues for
urban and rural residents"to increase their"property incomes, and put in place systems to effectively boost the
incomes of low-income"earners, steadily expand the size of the middle-income group, and properly
regulate"excessive incomes. We will further reform the salary-setting mechanism for SOEs and rationally determine
and strictly regulate the remuneration standards, allowances, and benefits for SOE executives"at all levels.

(43) Improving the employment-first policy

We will develop sound"mechanisms for promoting high-quality"and"full employment, refine the related public
services system, and work"hard to tackle structural"unemployment."We"will improve the system of employment
support"for key groups"such as college graduates,"rural migrant workers, and"ex-service members"and the system
of lifelong vocational skills training. We will coordinate urban and rural employment policies,"simultaneously
advance service reforms related to household registration, human resources, and personnel records, improve the
policy environment to boost employment by encouraging business startups, and support and regulate the
development of new forms of employment. We will improve the systems and mechanisms for promoting equality of
opportunity"and see that the channels for social mobility are unimpeded. We will refine the mechanisms for labor
relation"consultations"and mediation and do more to safeguard workers'"rights and interests.

(44) Improving the social security system

We will improve"the system for unified national management of basic old-age insurance funds and the
uni'ed"national"platform for social insurance public services. We will develop sound systems for ensuring that social
security funds are kept safe through supervision and their"value is maintained and increased over time. We will
refine the mechanisms for financing basic old-age insurance and basic medical insurance"and for adjusting the
benefits of both as appropriate. Basic pension"benefits for rural and non-working urban residents"under the basic
old-age insurance scheme will be raised gradually. We"will build a sound social security system to serve people"in
flexible employment, rural migrant workers, and those in new forms of employment and expand the coverage of
unemployment insurance, workers'"compensation,"and"childbirth"insurance programs. We will see to it that all

                                                                          Page 21 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

restrictions preventing people from accessing social security in the places where they work but do not hold
permanent residency are lifted and that policies for transferring social security accounts are improved. We will move
faster to develop a multi-tiered, multi-pillar old-age insurance system, expand the coverage of the annuity system,
and promote the implementation of private pension schemes. We will leverage various commercial insurance
schemes as a supplementary support. We will work toward provincial-level unified management of"basic medical
insurance"funds, further reform medical insurance payment"models, improve major disease insurance and medical
assistance"schemes, and tighten"oversight over medical insurance funds. We will improve the social assistance
system, the system for protecting"the lawful"rights and interests of women and children, and the social security and
service systems for people with disabilities.

We will move"faster to establish a housing system that supports both housing rentals and purchases and foster a
new development model for the real estate sector. We will scale up"the building and supply of government-
subsidized housing to meet the essential need of salaried people for"a home to live in. We will also work to support
the diverse needs of urban and rural residents for better"housing. Municipal governments will be given greater
decision-making powers to regulate the real estate market, and based on local conditions, some cities will be
permitted"to abolish or reduce"restrictions on housing purchases"and to scrap relevant standards for ordinary and
non-ordinary housing. We will carry out reforms to change the way real estate development is financed and to
improve the advance purchase system for commodity housing. Improvements will also be made to the taxation
system in the real estate sector.

(45) Further reforming the"medical and healthcare systems

We will implement a health-first strategy. We will improve the public health system, promoting public
participation"as well as collaboration"and integration between hospitals and disease prevention and control
institutions and boosting capacities for disease monitoring and early warning, risk assessment, epidemiological
investigation, testing and inspection, emergency response, and medical treatment. We will support"coordinated
development and governance"of medical services, medical insurance, and pharmaceuticals. We will do more to
increase"the availability of quality medical resources"and see that"such resources are channeled"toward the
community level and more evenly distributed among regions. We will move faster to develop the tiered diagnosis
and treatment"system,"propel the development of tightly knit medical consortia, and upgrade the services of
community-level medical and healthcare institutions. We will deepen the reform of public hospitals to see that they
better serve the public interest, establish mechanisms whereby medical expenses are primarily based on medical
services, improve the remuneration system, and set up a mechanism for making dynamic staffing adjustments. We
will guide and better regulate the development of private hospitals and introduce new approaches"in the
supervision"of medical and healthcare services. We will improve the mechanisms for supporting the development of
innovative drugs and medical equipment and for promoting the preservation and innovative development of
traditional Chinese medicine.

(46) Improving the systems"for supporting population development"and providing related services

We will improve the population development strategy"in response to population aging"and the declining birth rate. A
sound system will be instituted to provide full life-cycle"population services to all in order to promote high-quality
population development. We will refine"the policy system and incentive mechanisms for boosting"the birth
rate"and"strive to build a childbirth-friendly society. We will work to bring down the costs"of childbirth, parenting, and
education, refine parental leave policies,"introduce a system of childbirth subsidies, improve basic public services
for childbirth and pediatric medical care, and further raise the childcare-related deduction for personal income tax.
We will make greater efforts to develop a public-benefit"childcare"service system and provide support for employer-
run nurseries, community"childcare facilities, and home-based childcare. Based on the general patterns underlying
population flows, we will see that public services follow the movement of populations and facilitate the reasonable
concentration"of people in and their orderly"flow between urban and rural areas and different regions.

To actively"respond"to population aging, we will refine the policies and mechanisms for developing elderly care
programs and industries. We will develop the silver economy"and support the creation of diverse jobs tailored to

                                                                          Page 22 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

elderly people. In line with the principle of voluntary"participation with appropriate flexibility, we will advance reform
to gradually raise the statutory retirement"age in a prudent and orderly manner. To boost the supply of basic elderly
care"services, we will develop community-based facilities, improve"the operation mechanisms for public-run
institutions, encourage and guide the participation of enterprises and other non-governmental actors in service
provision, and promote mutual-aid elderly care and the integration of medical care and elderly"care. We will
work"faster to shore up weaknesses in"rural elderly care services. We will also see to it that better services are
provided for elderly people with special difficulties"including those who"live"alone, have disabilities, or suffer from
physical impairment, and"accelerate the"introduction of"insurance schemes"for"long-term care.

XII. Deepening Reform in Ecological Conservation

Chinese modernization is the modernization of harmony between humanity and nature. We must work to improve
ecological conservation systems and make concerted efforts to cut carbon emissions, reduce pollution, pursue
green development, and boost economic growth. We must actively"respond"to climate change and move faster to
improve the institutions and mechanisms for applying the principle that lucid waters and lush mountains are
invaluable assets.

(47)"Improving the basic systems for ecological conservation

We will implement region-specific environmental management systems"featuring differentiated, targeted regulation
and improve the systems for environmental monitoring and assessment. We will establish sound, united, well-
aligned systems for regulating the use of territorial space of all types across the country and for approving territorial
space plans. To improve the property rights and"management systems for natural resource"assets, we will refine
the"mechanism for the delegation of ownership over public-owned natural resource assets and establish"systems
for assessing and supervising performance in terms of protecting the environment, protecting and utilizing natural
resources, and ensuring that natural resource assets hold their"value and appreciate. We will improve the
coordination mechanism for ensuring national ecological security. An environmental code will be compiled.

(48)"Improving"environmental governance systems

We will develop responsibility, oversight, and market systems as well as laws, regulations, and"policies to improve
environmental governance. We will refine the institutions and"mechanisms for ensuring"that pollution control
practices are targeted, grounded in science,"and law-based,"and implement an oversight system"for
stationary"pollution sources"centered on emissions permits."We will establish systems for the coordinated treatment
of new pollutants and"management of environmental risks"and make a coordinated push to reduce"the discharge of
various pollutants. The reform to advance the law-based"disclosure"of environmental"information will continue, and
an environmental credibility"oversight system will be put into place. We will develop systems for integrated
upstream-downstream environmental governance in major river basins. Comprehensive"efforts will be made to
develop the"national park-based system of protected areas.

We will implement"the management system for ecological conservation redlines,"improve the mechanisms for
integrated protection and"systematic governance of mountain, water, forest, farmland, grassland, and desert
ecosystems, and develop multiple funding mechanisms for ecosystem protection and"restoration. We will enforce
the"system of mandatory limits on the use of water resources"and replace the water"resource fee"with a
tax"nationwide. The coordination mechanism for biodiversity protection will be"enhanced, and the systems for
developing and protecting marine resources will be improved. We will refine the mechanisms for realizing the
market value of ecosystem goods and services. We will further reform the system of paid use for natural resources.
We will advance comprehensive compensation for ecological conservation, improve the trans-
regional"compensation mechanism for ecological conservation, and take coordinated steps to
promote"compensation for environmental damage.

(49)"Improving"the mechanisms for green and low-carbon development

                                                                          Page 23 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

We will implement"fiscal, tax, financial, investment, and pricing policies as well as standards to support green"and
low-carbon"development, develop green and low-carbon industries, improve incentive"mechanisms for eco-friendly
consumer spending, and work toward an economy that facilitates green, low-carbon, and circular development."We
will optimize policies on green government procurement"and refine the green taxation system. We will
improve"the"systems"for total resource consumption"control and comprehensive resource conservation, as well as
the system for recycling waste and used materials. Mechanisms for ensuring clean and efficient use of coal will be
refined. We will"accelerate the planning and development of a new type of energy system"and improve the policies
and"measures for promoting the absorption"of electricity generated from new energy sources into power grids and
for the"regulation of such energy. Improvements will be made to the working systems for adapting to climate
change. New mechanisms will be put in place to facilitate the transition from controlling the total amount and
intensity of energy consumption to controlling the total amount and intensity of carbon emissions. We will establish
a"carbon emissions statistics and accounting system, a carbon labeling and certification system, as well as a
carbon footprint management"system. We will also improve the cap-and-trade system"for carbon emissions"and the
trading"system"for voluntary greenhouse gas emissions reduction."On this basis, we will actively and prudently
move toward reaching peak carbon emissions and carbon neutrality.

XIII. Modernizing China's National Security System and Capacity

National security provides a pivotal foundation for ensuring steady and sustained progress in Chinese
modernization. We must fully apply a holistic approach"to national security, improve the institutions and
mechanisms for safeguarding national security, and ensure that high-quality development and greater security
reinforce each other, so as to safeguard the country's long-term stability and security.

(50)"Improving"the national security system

The mechanisms for"coordinating national security"work will be strengthened. We will improve"the legal, strategy,
policy,"and risk monitoring and early warning systems for national security,"the systems"for"safeguarding"security in
key sectors,"and the coordination and command systems for major projects."We will create a coordinated"and
highly effective"system for protecting national security"and better leverage science and"technology to safeguard
national security.

(51)"Improving"the public security governance mechanisms

We will improve the response and support system for major public emergencies, refine the emergency response
command mechanisms under the overall safety and emergency response framework, bolster response
infrastructure and capabilities in local communities, and strengthen capacity"for disaster prevention, mitigation, and
relief."The mechanisms for identifying and addressing workplace safety risks and for conducting retroactive
investigations"to determine liability"will be improved. We will refine the food and drug safety responsibility system,
as well as the systems of monitoring, early warning, and risk prevention and control for biosafety and
biosecurity."We will strengthen the cybersecurity system and"institute"oversight systems to ensure the safety of
artificial intelligence.

(52)"Improving"the social governance system

We will"apply and further develop the Fengqiao model for promoting community-level governance in the new era,
enhance the Party organization-led urban and rural community governance system based on self-governance, the
rule of law, and the rule of virtue,"and improve the social governance system based on collaboration, participation,
and benefit sharing. We will explore avenues for establishing a unified national population management system. We
will improve the institutions and mechanisms for social"work, better guide community-level governance through
Party building,"strengthen the ranks of social workers, and advance the development of"the volunteer service
system. We will promote law-based handling of public complaints"and proposals."To improve the social governance
capacity of cities, steps will be taken to ensure that citizen hotlines and other public service platforms function more
effectively. To advance one-stop government services, we will improve the list-based management mechanism for
relevant major tasks as well as the mechanism for ensuring ongoing progress. We will improve the system for

                                                                          Page 24 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

public psychological and counseling services and crisis intervention mechanisms. We will refine the mechanisms for
giving"full play to the role of family ties, values, and traditions in community-level social governance."Reform of
trade associations"and"chambers of commerce"will be furthered."Improvements will be made to the
management"system for social organizations.

We will enhance the systems for ensuring that the powers and resources of towns and townships (urban sub-
districts)"are commensurate with"their duties, so that they are better able to provide services and conduct
management. We will improve the"integrated system for maintaining law and order and the mechanism for
combating"and rooting"out organized crime on an ongoing basis,"and we will, in accordance with the law,"crack
down hard on illegal and criminal activities that cause grave public concern."

(53)"Improving"the mechanisms for ensuring national security in foreign-related affairs

We will establish sound coordination mechanisms for promoting security"in neighboring regions. We will strengthen
the institutions and mechanisms for early warning, prevention and control, and protection against risks to China's
interests and investments overseas and deepen international law enforcement cooperation in the realm of security,
so as to protect the lawful rights and interests of Chinese citizens and legal entities overseas."Mechanisms for
countering foreign sanctions, interference, and long-arm jurisdiction will be strengthened."We will enhance the
mechanisms for safeguarding China's maritime rights and interests, as well as those for China's"participation in
global security governance.

XIV."Deepening National Defense and Military Reform

National defense and military modernization is an integral part of"Chinese modernization. We must maintain the
Party's absolute leadership over the people's"armed forces and fully implement the strategy of strengthening the
military"through reform, in order to"provide"a strong guarantee for"realizing the centenary goal of the People's
Liberation Army in 2027 and basically"modernizing national defense and the armed forces.

(54) Improving the institutions and mechanisms for leading"and managing"the people's"armed forces

We will improve the institutions and mechanisms for implementing the system of ultimate responsibility resting with
the chairman of the Central Military Commission (CMC) and continue to enhance political loyalty in the military. We
will optimize the functional setup of CMC departments"and improve the mechanisms for coordinated advancement
of military operations, capacity building, and combat preparedness. We will refine the consultation and evaluation
mechanisms"for major decisions, develop new approaches to strategic management, and improve the military
governance system. We will improve the working"mechanisms for"running the military"in accordance with"the law.
We will refine the supporting policies"and systems for military operations,"combat"preparedness, military human
resources, and other fields. The reform of military academies will be deepened in a bid to fully
harness"their"potential. Military-affiliated enterprises and public institutions"will also undergo adjustment and
reform.

(55) Deepening reform of joint operations systems

We will refine the functions of"the CMC command center"for joint"operations, enhance"its command functions"in
major security fields, and establish mechanisms"for facilitating its coordination with central Party and
state"departments. We will optimize the composition of"the command centers"for joint theater operations"and
improve the configuration"of commands for joint taskforce operations. We will better"coordinate the development
and application of the network information system. To develop a new framework of services and arms, we will
speed up the development of strategic deterrence"forces and"strive to develop new-domain forces with new combat
capabilities, while making coordinated"efforts to strengthen"traditional combat"forces. The composition of the armed
police force"will be improved.

(56) Deepening military-civilian reforms

                                                                          Page 25 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

We will improve the working mechanisms for"developing integrated national strategies and strategic capabilities
and refine the institutions and mechanisms for military-related"decision-making, deliberation, and coordination. We
will improve the mechanisms for submitting and reporting on defense-related military needs and enhancing"military-
civilian alignment and refine the national defense mobilization system. Reform of the defense-related science,
technology, and industry systems will be deepened to upgrade the layout"of these areas. We will refine"the system
for"weaponry and equipment procurement, develop"reward mechanisms for"designing military products, and
modernize our weaponry and equipment management system. We will improve the mechanisms"for coordinating
standards"between the military and civilian sectors. We will better coordinate development and management in
aerospace, military trade, and other fields. We will optimize the institutions and mechanisms for leading"and
managing border"and"coastal defense"and improve mechanisms"to enable the Party, the government, the military,
the police force, and the people to work together on border governance."Reform of the militia system"will be
furthered. The mechanisms"for"strengthening"mutual support between civilian sectors and the military"will be
refined.

XV."Improving the"Party's Leadership

"Leadership"by the Party provides a fundamental guarantee for further deepening reform comprehensively
to"advance"Chinese modernization. We"must acquire a deep understanding of the decisive significance of
establishing Comrade Xi Jinping's core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole and
establishing the guiding role of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. We
must"be more conscious of the need to maintain political integrity, think in big-picture terms, follow the leadership
core, and keep in alignment with the central Party leadership. We must stay confident in the path, theory, system,
and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics. We must uphold Comrade Xi Jinping's core position on the
Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole and uphold the Central Committee's authority and its
centralized, unified leadership."

We must maintain a keen awareness of the need to use the Party's self-reform to steer social reform and"continue
to apply both the spirit of reform"and rigorous standards in conducting Party self-governance. We will improve the
systems and regulations for the Party's self-reform"and continue working to purify, improve, renew, and excel
ourselves. All this will enable our Party"to remain the strong leadership core in building socialism with Chinese
characteristics.

(57) Upholding the Party Central Committee's centralized, unified"leadership over"the endeavor to"further deepen
reform"comprehensively

The Party Central Committee"exercises leadership over the general"design, coordination, and overall advancement
of all our reforms."We will refine the mechanisms"through which the major decisions and plans of the Central
Committee are implemented, in order to ensure full compliance with its orders and prohibitions. Party committees
(leading Party members groups) at all levels"are responsible for implementing"the Central Committee's decisions
and plans,"planning"and advancing reforms in their regions and departments, encouraging"pioneering efforts and
innovations based on their own situations, and creating new experience that can be applied elsewhere. Continuing
to follow"the Party's mass line in the new era, we will fully incorporate social expectations, the people's wisdom, the
views of experts, and primary-level experience"into the design of reforms. We will set reform agendas with a focus
on solving prominent problems"and improve the mechanisms for drawing up key reform plans. We will uphold truth,
correct errors, and discover problems and remedy failings"as they arise. We will improve reform incentives"and
better guide public"opinion so as to foster a favorable environment"for reform.

(58) Deepening institutional reforms related to Party building

With a focus on boosting"the whole Party's drive, initiative, and creativity for"reform and development, we will
improve the systems and mechanisms"for Party building. We will further arm ourselves with the Party's new
theories"and set up sound long-term mechanisms"for reinforcing commitment, acquiring knowledge, improving
conduct, and enhancing"performance"through learning. We will further"reform the management system for officials

                                                                          Page 26 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

and personnel and firmly"follow the right approach to selecting and appointing officials. Officials who are politically
committed, highly responsible, determined to pursue reform, outstanding in performance,"and honest and clean,
must be selected; and the problem of officials acting arbitrarily or lacking the willingness, courage, or ability to
deliver must be addressed. We will see that officials have a correct understanding of what it means to perform
well"and improve the mechanisms for effectively preventing and correcting any misguided"views
about"achievements."We will apply the "three distinctions""to"encourage officials to forge ahead in a pioneering
spirit and demonstrate enterprise in their work."We will"make an ongoing effort to ensure that officials can be
demoted as well as promoted"and make a stronger push to replace those who are no longer suitable for their posts.
We will improve the mechanisms for providing regular training, and basic training in particular, for officials, give
them more professional training opportunities, and temper them through practice, in order to make them fully
capable"of advancing modernization"initiatives. The tenure system for leading officials will be refined and fully
applied, and the handover system for the heads of leadership teams will be improved. We will"strengthen the
political and organizational functions of Party organizations. We will look into effective ways of Party building in new
types of economic and social organizations and among groups in new forms of employment."We will improve the
mechanisms for guiding and managing Party members and giving full play to their roles. We will also refine Party
rules and regulations, increase their authority, and fully enforce them.

(59) Intensifying efforts to improve conduct, build integrity, and combat corruption

Mechanisms for conducting concrete, targeted, and regular political oversight will be improved. We will steadfastly
implement the central Party leadership's eight-point decision on improving conduct and refine our systems and
mechanisms for preventing and tackling"pointless formalities"and"bureaucratism. We will continue to streamline and
standardize meetings"and documents,"as well as all types of demonstration initiatives, evaluations, standards
inspections, festival celebrations, expositions and exhibitions, and forums; strictly control the total number of
community-level inspections, examinations, and evaluations; and raise the quality of research and studies. Great
effort will be made to address the excessive frequency of all these activities. We will formulate lists of duties for
towns and townships (urban sub-districts)"and refine the long-term mechanisms for reducing their burdens. We will
set up mechanisms for carrying out regular and intensive education on Party discipline and better exercise four
forms of oversight over discipline compliance,"thus ensuring we make full use"of Party discipline as a guide,
restraint, guarantee, and incentive.

We will improve the mechanisms for coordinating"efforts"to ensure that officials do not have the audacity,
opportunity, or desire to be corrupt"and work hard to eradicate the breeding grounds and conditions for corruption.
We will improve the mechanisms for investigating and addressing instances of both misconduct and corruption,
intensify efforts to uproot corruption in sectors with a high concentration of power, funds, and resources, and
strictly"investigate and deal with any collusion between government officials and businesspeople that undermines
the political ecosystem and economic development."We will refine the mechanisms for taking joint punitive actions
against major bribe givers and adopt more measures to effectively prevent and control new and disguised forms of
corruption. We will take stronger steps to handle false accusations. We will improve the mechanisms for pursuing
fugitives, preventing escape, and retrieving stolen assets. We will see that a culture of integrity prevails in the new
era."

Party and state oversight systems will be improved. We will ensure that principal and oversight responsibilities for
full and rigorous Party self-governance are assumed. We will improve the supporting systems for more effective
oversight of leadership teams and their heads. We will improve the mechanisms for applying checks over the
allocation and exercise of power and oppose privilege-seeking mindsets and behavior. We will work to coordinate
discipline and law enforcement with the administration of criminal justice. We will improve the working institutions
and mechanisms for discipline inspection. We will optimize the functions of oversight, inspection, review, and
investigation agencies, improve the discipline inspection and supervision systems for departments under vertical
management, and work to see that discipline inspection and supervision teams are dispatched"to all central
government-administered"enterprises. Institutional reforms for primary-level oversight will be deepened. Steps will
be taken to advance national anti-corruption legislation, revise the Supervision Law, and formulate a law on
countering transnational corruption.

                                                                          Page 27 of 27
    RESOLUTION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA ON FURTHER
         DEEPENING REFORM COMPREHENSIVELY TO ADVANCE CHINESE MODERNIZATION

(60) Ensuring the implementation of reforms with relentless perseverance

The whole Party must take pragmatic, resolute, and effective steps to ensure implementation of the Party Central
Committee's decisions and plans on further deepening reform comprehensively. We need to work in concert from
top to bottom across all departments and regions to set the tasks, timelines, and priorities for reform in a well-
conceived way, and designate competent departments for implementing each reform initiative and clearly define
their responsibilities. The implementation of major reforms will be subject to oversight and inspection, and the litmus
test of reform will lie in how well it performs, what it delivers, and how much satisfaction"it brings our people.

Chinese modernization is the modernization of peaceful development. In diplomatic work, China remains firm in
pursuing an independent foreign policy of peace"and is dedicated to promoting a human community with a shared
future."We will stay committed to the common values"of all humanity, pursue the Global Development Initiative, the
Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilization Initiative, and call for an equal and orderly multipolar world and
universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization. We will deepen institutional reforms related to the work
of foreign affairs and get involved in"leading the reform and development of the global governance system."We will
resolutely safeguard China's sovereignty, security, and development interests"and"foster a favorable external
environment for further deepening reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization.

Let the whole Party, the entire military, and Chinese people of all ethnic groups rally more closely around the Party
Central Committee"with"Comrade Xi Jinping at its core. Let us hold high the banner of reform and opening up, pool
all wisdom and strength, and forge ahead with enterprise. Let us work hard toward"the"Second Centenary Goal"of
building"China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and strive to advance the rejuvenation of the
Chinese nation on all fronts through Chinese modernization.


Load-Date: July 21, 2024


  
