

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 3
  Nutanix Study Projects Hybrid Multicloud Adoption for Financial Services Will Triple, as Organizations Prioritize
                                Data Security & AI Projected growth driven by ....




  Nutanix Study Projects Hybrid Multicloud Adoption for Financial Services
 Will Triple, as Organizations Prioritize Data Security & AI; Projected growth
driven by large number of ransomware attacks and acceleration of the use of
                    AI across the financial services sector
                                                    Business Wire
                                       June 25, 2024 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1268 words
Dateline: SAN JOSE, Calif.

Body


Nutanix (NASDAQ: NTNX ), a leader in hybrid multicloud computing, announced the findings of its sixth annual
global Financial Services Enterprise Cloud Index (ECI) survey and research report, which measures enterprise
progress with cloud adoption in the financial services and insurance industry. While current adoption of hybrid
multicloud deployments remains consistent year-over-year in the financial services sector, respondents expect a
significant 3x increase in adoption in the next three years, making it the leading IT model in the sector.

The Financial Services ECI report revealed that data security and ransomware protection, implementing AI
strategies, and minimizing cost are driving IT decision makers infrastructure priorities. 99% of ECI financial services
respondents shared that they had experienced a ransomware attack at some point in the past three years. 89%
agreed that their organizations had room for improvement when it came to their ability to protect against such
attacks. AI was noted as a key driver of IT infrastructure priorities as well, as IT leaders are increasingly tasked to
leverage AI solutions to improve decision-making and enhance customer experiences.

This evolution reflects the strategic deployment by financial services industries of diverse cloud environments
tailored for specific operational, cost, compliance, and control requirements. Hybrid multicloud architecture's appeal
lies in its ability to offer diverse cost, billing, and deployment options, empowering digital enterprises with the
flexibility to enhance application performance, bolster security, accelerate time to market, and optimize IT
expenditures.

"It is startling to see that nearly all the financial services respondents in this year's ECI Survey have experienced a
ransomware attack," said Lee Caswell, SVP Product & Solutions Marketing at Nutanix. "It's a sign of the times that
hybrid multicloud adoption is set to triple as financial services users gear up for heightened cybersecurity risks as
new regulatory requirements, such as the EU's 2025 Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), go into effect -
making data protection and disaster recovery a hybrid multicloud imperative."

Financial services respondents were asked about their current cloud challenges, how they're running business
applications today, and where they plan to run them in the future. Key findings from this year's report include:

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 3
  Nutanix Study Projects Hybrid Multicloud Adoption for Financial Services Will Triple, as Organizations Prioritize
                                Data Security & AI Projected growth driven by ....

    •   Financial services decision-makers share that cybersecurity remains paramount, yet emphasis on AI
        Investment and managing overall costs sit closely behind. Half of the respondents (50%) reported that their
        organizations required a few days or a few weeks to fully restore operations following a cybersecurity
        incident. Another 12% said that while operations were mostly restored within a few days or weeks, the
        impact of the attack on the enterprise lasted beyond the restoration of daily operations.
    •   How FinServ CIOs are thinking about infrastructure priorities. As hybrid multicloud environments grow, so
        are infrastructure and workloads. Cloud (78%), data and AI (77%), and ransomware protection (77%) are
        seeing significant growth. Despite frequently citing sustainability as critical to purchasing decisions, few
        institutions plan to significantly increase investments in this area next year. The largest projected increases
        in IT budgets are for AI (39%), followed by ransomware prevention (34%) and IT modernization (30%).
        Overall, 78% of respondents intend to boost spending on cloud computing, with 77% planning increases
        for AI and ransomware protection.
    •   Sustainability and flexibility top the list of key factors for decision making. For financial service companies
        selecting cloud services (private, hybrid, or public), flexibility, security, and data capabilities have
        consistently been key criteria this year and last. When ECI respondents were asked to identify the single
        most important factor influencing their IT infrastructure purchasing decisions, sustainability was the top
        selection (15%), closely followed by the flexibility to manage workloads across various on-premises and
        cloud infrastructures (14%), and cost considerations (14%). This varied compared to other sectors where
        sustainability and cost were generally ranked as less important.
    •   The desire to improve data access performance, security, and regulatory compliance are why financial
        enterprises relocate applications to a different infrastructure. Nearly all respondents (97%) in the financial
        services sector and 95% globally said they had moved one or more applications to a different IT
        infrastructure in the past 12 months, creating a need for simple and flexible inter-cloud workload and
        application portability. Application movement in financial services was motivated most often by a desire to
        enhance performance/data access speeds (42%), followed by improving security and regulatory
        compliance (41%).
    •   The top-ranked challenges in financial services IT departments are cyber and compliance related. Among
        financial services respondents, ransomware prevention/data security and adherence to data storage/usage
        mandates, like DORA, were both cited as the top data management challenges today, each by 19% of
        respondents.

For the sixth consecutive year, Vanson Bourne conducted research on behalf of Nutanix, surveying 1,500 IT and
DevOps/Platform Engineering decision-makers around the world in December 2023. The respondent base spanned
multiple industries, business sizes, and geographies, including North and South America; Europe, the Middle East
and Africa (EMEA); and Asia-Pacific-Japan (APJ) region.

To learn more about the report and findings, please download the full global Financial Services Nutanix Enterprise
Cloud Index, here .

About Nutanix

Nutanix is a global leader in cloud software, offering organizations a single platform for running apps and data
across clouds. With Nutanix, companies can reduce complexity and simplify operations, freeing them to focus on
their business outcomes. Building on its legacy as the pioneer of hyperconverged infrastructure, Nutanix is trusted
by companies worldwide to power hybrid multicloud environments consistently, simply, and cost-effectively. Learn
more at www.nutanix.com or follow us on social media @nutanix.

© 2024 Nutanix, Inc. All rights reserved. Nutanix, the Nutanix logo, and all Nutanix product and service names
mentioned herein are registered trademarks or unregistered trademarks of Nutanix, Inc. ("Nutanix") in the United
States and other countries. Other brand names or marks mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and
may be the trademarks of their respective holder(s). This press release is for informational purposes only and

                                                                                                      Page 3 of 3
  Nutanix Study Projects Hybrid Multicloud Adoption for Financial Services Will Triple, as Organizations Prioritize
                                Data Security & AI Projected growth driven by ....

nothing herein constitutes a warranty or other binding commitment by Nutanix. This release may contain express
and implied forward-looking statements, which are not historical facts and are instead based on Nutanix's current
expectations, estimates and beliefs. The accuracy of such statements involves risks and uncertainties and depends
upon future events, including those that may be beyond Nutanix's control, and actual results may differ materially
and adversely from those anticipated or implied by such statements. Any forward-looking statements included
herein speak only as of the date hereof and, except as required by law, Nutanix assumes no obligation to update or
otherwise revise any of such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240625904443/en/


CONTACT: Gabrielle Moynan

pr@nutanix.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: June 25, 2024


  
