

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
    Firms Invest in Management, Resilience for Hybrid Clouds Platform innovations help companies build better
                           private and hybrid clouds by tackling complexity, secu....




       Firms Invest in Management, Resilience for Hybrid Clouds; Platform
      innovations help companies build better private and hybrid clouds by
     tackling complexity, security threats, downtime, ISG Provider Lens(TM)
                                    report says
                                                    Business Wire
                                       July 10, 2024 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1104 words
Dateline: STAMFORD, Conn.

Body


More enterprises are implementing hybrid cloud management platforms as they diversify their IT environments to
overcome the limits of relying solely on public clouds, according to a new research report published today by
Information Services Group ( ISG ) (Nasdaq: III ), a leading global technology research and advisory firm.

The 2024 ISG Provider Lens(TM) global Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Solutions report finds that
organizations want the flexibility, scalability and agility of cloud computing while addressing their unique operational,
regulatory and security challenges. In many cases, intelligently planned hybrid cloud platforms help them control
expenses, data residency and compliance.

"Companies that are worried about the economy want to get more out of their IT investments," said Anay Nawathe,
ISG cloud delivery lead. "With strong management, private and hybrid cloud infrastructures can maximize
operational efficiency and financial resilience."

Along with these benefits, hybrid clouds bring more complexity, especially with the need for resource coordination
across platforms and smooth data flow between on-premises and cloud infrastructure, ISG says. This requires
specialized tools and skills, so enterprises are implementing hybrid cloud management platforms that let them get
the most out of each cloud environment and minimize performance bottlenecks.

Organizations are also under pressure to make IT infrastructure more resilient, increasing the demand for backup
and disaster recovery platforms, the report says. These create copies of critical data and systems so operations
can quickly resume after a cyberattack or natural disaster. Scalable, secure and cost-effective resiliency solutions
are becoming as crucial as primary on-premises and public cloud infrastructure.

AI and ML play growing roles in both cloud management and resilience platforms, ISG says. Companies are
embracing AI and ML cloud management tools that use data from various sources to predict downtime and initiate
self-healing tools, enhancing reliability. Such technologies are also being used to automate backup and recovery
platforms, some of which use algorithms to identify and respond to anomalies or threats in real time.

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
    Firms Invest in Management, Resilience for Hybrid Clouds Platform innovations help companies build better
                           private and hybrid clouds by tackling complexity, secu....

"Faster response and recovery to a disruption minimizes any loss of revenue and productivity, while at the same
time improving customer satisfaction," said Jan Erik Aase, partner and global leader, ISG Provider Lens Research.
"Vendors are helping enterprises achieve these gains through AI and automation."

Companies are also tightening control over data in both cloud management and resilience platforms using privacy-
enhancing features, the report says. These include access controls and encryption key management that allow
them to define and enforce granular access policies.

The report also explores other trends affecting private and hybrid cloud infrastructure, including the growing
popularity of AI for IT operations (AIOps) for orchestration and FinOps for cost containment.

For more insights into the private and hybrid cloud challenges enterprises face, including the complexity of
managing hybrid clouds and the rising incidence of cyberattacks and natural disasters, along with ISG's advice for
addressing these issues, see the ISG Provider Lens(TM) Focal Points briefing here .

The 2024 ISG Provider Lens(TM) global Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Solutions report evaluates the
capabilities of 38 providers across two quadrants: Hybrid Cloud Management Platforms and Resiliency Platforms.

The report names HPE (Zerto) and VMware as Leaders in both quadrants. It names BMC Software, Cohesity,
Commvault, Dell Technologies, Flexera, HCL Software, Morpheus Data, Rubrik, ServiceNow, Veeam and Veritas
as Leaders in one quadrant each.

In addition, CloudBolt Software is named as a Rising Star - a company with a "promising portfolio" and "high future
potential" by ISG's definition - in one quadrant.

In the area of customer experience, Green is named the global ISG CX Star Performer for 2024 among
private/hybrid cloud service providers. Green earned the highest customer satisfaction scores in ISG's Voice of the
Customer survey, part of the ISG Star of Excellence(TM) program , the premier quality recognition for the
technology and business services industry.

A customized version of the report is available from Morpheus .

The 2024 ISG Provider Lens(TM) global Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Solutions report is available to
subscribers or for one-time purchase on this webpage .

About ISG Provider Lens(TM) Research

The ISG Provider Lens(TM) Quadrant research series is the only service provider evaluation of its kind to combine
empirical, data-driven research and market analysis with the real-world experience and observations of ISG's global
advisory team. Enterprises will find a wealth of detailed data and market analysis to help guide their selection of
appropriate sourcing partners, while ISG advisors use the reports to validate their own market knowledge and make
recommendations to ISG's enterprise clients. The research currently covers providers offering their services
globally, across Europe, as well as in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Brazil, the U.K., France, Benelux, Germany,
Switzerland, the Nordics, Australia and Singapore/Malaysia, with additional markets to be added in the future. For
more information about ISG Provider Lens research, please visit this webpage .

About ISG

ISG (Information Services Group) (Nasdaq: III ) is a leading global technology research and advisory firm. A trusted
business partner to more than 900 clients, including more than 75 of the world's top 100 enterprises, ISG is
committed to helping corporations, public sector organizations, and service and technology providers achieve
operational excellence and faster growth. The firm specializes in digital transformation services, including AI and
automation, cloud and data analytics; sourcing advisory; managed governance and risk services; network carrier
services; strategy and operations design; change management; market intelligence and technology research and

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
    Firms Invest in Management, Resilience for Hybrid Clouds Platform innovations help companies build better
                           private and hybrid clouds by tackling complexity, secu....

analysis. Founded in 2006, and based in Stamford, Conn., ISG employs more than 1,600 digital-ready
professionals operating in more than 20 countries-a global team known for its innovative thinking, market influence,
deep industry and technology expertise, and world-class research and analytical capabilities based on the
industry's most comprehensive marketplace data. For more information, visit www.isg-one.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240710037163/en/


CONTACT: Press Contacts:Will Thoretz, ISG
+1 203 517 3119

will.thoretz@isg-one.com Julianna Sheridan, Matter Communications for ISG
+1 978-518-4520

isg@matternow.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 23, 2024


  
