

                                                                                             Page 1 of 7
   Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety Hearing
                          "Digging Deeper: Building Our Critical Minerals Workforce."....




      Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on
 Employment and Workplace Safety Hearing; "Digging Deeper: Building Our
 Critical Minerals Workforce."; Testimony by Gracelin Baskaran, Center for
             Strategic and International Studies, Washington, DC
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                             June 12, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. SENATE DOCUMENTS
Length: 4420 words

Body


Chairman Hickenlooper, Ranking Member Braun, and distinguished Members of the Subcommittee, I am honored
to share my views with you on this important topic. CSIS does not take policy positions, so the views represented in
this testimony are my own and not those of my employer. In my testimony, I would like to reflect on how the
workforce became a key impediment to reducing our reliance on China for key minerals required for national,
economic and energy security. I will then look at potential solutions: how the United States can make existing tools,
such as the Fulbright program, National Science Foundation, and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, better
fit for supporting our minerals security needs, how we can support partnerships between mining companies and
universities to attract young talent, and how we can leverage our military academies to help meet our workforce
needs.

My name is Dr. Gracelin Baskaran. I am the Director of the Project on Critical Minerals Security at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). I started in the mining industry 11 years ago, when the U.S. State
Department awarded me a Fulbright Fellowship. Through my Fulbright, I spent a year in South Africa's platinum
belt, including time in the mines, and saw the long-term value of the sector - both economically and technologically.
I went on to do a PhD at the University of Cambridge on the platinum sector and later co-authored a book on
leveraging mining, oil and gas for economic transformation amidst decarbonization. My career, which has taken me
from the depths of mines in South Africa, such as Twickenham and Mogalakwena, to the halls of Washington DC,
began with the Fulbright.

At CSIS, I now work to increase our economic and national security by reducing vulnerability in our supply chains
for critical minerals. My work informs the White House National Security Council, State Department, Department of
Energy, Development Finance Corporation, US Embassies globally, and bipartisan and bicameral members of
Congress. My work also takes me to resource-rich jurisdictions around the world, where I work with industry players
from 8 of the biggest Western mining companies by market capitalization, government officials from the United
States, Middle East, Africa and Latin America, and members of civil society to understand how we can effectively

                                                                                             Page 2 of 7
   Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety Hearing
                          "Digging Deeper: Building Our Critical Minerals Workforce."....

build minerals security. This has given me perspectives that reflect the realities on the ground both domestically and
internationally.

Background

Minerals are important for national, economic and energy security. Their strategic value to the United States
motivated an active minerals policy in the 20th century. In 1910, the United States Department of Interior created
the United States Bureau of Mines with the goal of overseeing domestic mining activities and securing a sufficient
mineral supply. The Bureau supported scientific studies and knowledge sharing about mineral resource extraction,
processing, utilization, and health and safety standards. In 1996, Congress voted to close the Bureau and
decentralize some of its responsibilities amongst several other departments. A Department of Interior report
published in 2023 noted that, "At the end of the 20th century, the United States lost its position as the global leader
in mining, both in terms of total production and the development of cutting-edge mining technology." n1

Over the last three decades, China has become a dominant player in the supply chains of minerals key to national
and energy security. Even if it is a marginal producer directly, China finances and imports from the rest of the world
to control 65 percent to 90 percent of global supply of key metals. n2 This concentration is the result of decades of
industrial strategy and foreign policy from Beijing. It is also a strategic challenge for the United States, given the
importance of strengthening national security and meeting energy needs while geopolitical tensions between the
two countries rise. China has developed a robust workforce that has allowed it to develop an absolute advantage in
these supply chains.

Rare earth elements, nickel, lithium, germanium and gallium are critical inputs for defense systems, including
precision guided munitions, strategic nuclear applications and several missile classes, lasers that serve as range
fingers and target designators, military information communication technology, modern naval missiles, weapon
systems, tanks, and radar modules. They are the backbone of national security. Copper, lithium, nickel,
manganese, cobalt, graphite, zinc, and rare earth elements are necessary for meeting our global decarbonization
goals by manufacturing and deploying offshore and onshore wind, stationary and electric vehicle batteries, solar
photovoltaics (PV), nuclear power and natural gas.

The United States, and much of the globe, is most reliant on China for its critical minerals supply. n3 Of the 50
minerals included in the 2022 Final List of Critical Minerals produced by the USGS, the United States had larger
than a 50 percent reliance on imports for 31 n4, n5 and was wholly important reliant for 12. The United States is
wholly reliant on China for 9 of them. n6 China has already demonstrated a willingness to use export controls or
quotas on critical minerals as a geopolitical tool.

The United States needs a strategy for reducing dependency and strengthening mineral supply. The last two
administrations have set out to improve supply through better exploration, production, recycling, and reprocessing
of critical minerals. In 2017, President Donald Trump issued Executive order 13817, to facilitate better management
of critical minerals to strengthen energy security and executive prosperity. An output of this was an inter-agency
report from the Secretaries of Commerce, Defense, Interior and Energy and the U.S. Trade Representative on
critical minerals. One of the six calls to action in the report was to, "Enhance International Trade and Cooperation
Related to Critical Minerals: [Identify] options for accessing and developing critical minerals through investment and
trade with America's allies, discusses areas for international collaboration and cooperation." n7 In 2021, President
Biden issued Executive Order 14017 which ordered a review of vulnerability in the US critical mineral and material
supply chain. Subsequently, a supply chain assessment was released by the administration that found over-reliance
on foreign sources and adversarial nations for critical minerals and materials posed national and economic security
threats. The White House published its "Plan to Revitalize American Manufacturing and Secure Critical Supply
Chains" in 2022, where it announced plans to increase domestic processing capacity of rare earth minerals, copper,
nickel, lithium, and cobalt.

The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) has a stockpile of 47 commodities worth more than $1.5 billion. The stockpile
was first established after World War 1. In February 2022, Congress authorized $1 billion for the National Defense

                                                                                             Page 3 of 7
   Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety Hearing
                          "Digging Deeper: Building Our Critical Minerals Workforce."....

Stockpile to acquire strategic and critical materials to increase its buffer in the event of crises and disruptions in
supply chains. n8

Over the last few years, Congress also passed the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA), the CHIPS and
Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which authorized and provided over $8.5 billion in funding for
critical minerals activities. n9 Specifically, the IRA seeks to prioritize domestic production of minerals. The Clean
Vehicle Tax Credit and the Advanced Manufacturing Production Tax Credit of 2022 extend tax credits only to
vehicles that meet threshold requirements for critical materials sourced domestically and from countries with which
the United States has a free trade agreement. These tax credits and spending programs are uncoordinated and
mostly focused on domestic mining and processing.

However, the domestic-only approach to critical minerals cannot work. Geologically, a significant share of the
minerals we need are not located in the United States or economically recoverable here. The United States has
less than 1 percent of the world's nickel, cobalt, and graphite, 1.3 percent of the world's rare earths, and 1.5 percent
of the world's manganese, which is a non-substitutable metal required for all steel production.

The United States ability to build both its domestic and international capacity in mining will require a skilled
workforce, which we have a significant deficit for. A recent McKinsey survey revealed that 71 percent of mining
leaders stated that human capital shortages are preventing them from reaching their production targets and
strategic goals. n10 We need mining engineers, geologists and geoscientists, metallurgists, geophysicists,
economists, and senior management that we can deploy domestically and internationally. An analysis from CSIS
notes:

"More than half the current domestic mining workforce will need to be retired and replaced by 2029 (roughly
221,000 workers). This number stands in stark contrast to the total of just 327 degrees awarded in 2020 in mining
and mineral engineering and a 39 percent net drop in graduations in the United States since 2016. University
programs tasked with creating this workforce have also been decreasing, with the number of mining and mineral
engineering programs in the United States dropping from 25 in 1982 to 15 in 2023. This is in stark contrast to
China, which has over 38 mineral processing schools and upwards of 44 mining engineering programs. Central
South University, China's largest mineral processing program, has 1,000 undergraduates and 500 graduate
students alone ready to accomplish China's mineral ambitions." n11

As the graph below shows, without this, we will not be able to meet future minerals demand, which will grow
significantly over the next 30 years, largely driven by clean energy technology. In 2020, the world needed
approximately 8 million metric tons of minerals for the deployment of clean energy technologies - electric vehicles,
electricity networks, solar and wind technology, battery storage, low-carbon power generation and hydrogen. In
2030 - just six years from now - we will need roughly 50 million metric tons - over a six-fold increase. In 2040, this
increases to about 105 million metric tons - a thirteen-fold increase from 2020. And by 2050, we will need about 150
million tons - nearly a 19-fold increase. Training a workforce to meet future demand is imperative and it requires
efforts that begin as soon as possible.

Addressing the Workforce Shortage

Repurposing Existing Instruments to Build the Mining Workforce

The Department of Interior report published in 2023 noted that, "A lack of educational programs for building
expertise in mining and mining oversight and a lack of interest in mining among the cohort of students who will
become the managers of tomorrow compound a shortage of properly trained workers." n12

My dad is the Chair of the Geology Department at Wayne State University in Detroit. As I've built my own career in
the mining industry, we have discussed how geology, environmental science and engineering graduates in the
United States are not moving to the mining sector. The United States needs to support embedding mining
workstreams into geology and engineering programs. The need to build a mining workforce is a more recent priority
- so few programs have historical depth here. Catching up in this area will require a significant increase in capacity

                                                                                             Page 4 of 7
   Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety Hearing
                          "Digging Deeper: Building Our Critical Minerals Workforce."....

building and financing. This is for two reasons. First, academic programs largely succeed or fail based on available
funding - particularly for research and scholarships. Second, there is often a lack of expertise to build these
programs. This will require bringing in both skilled industry experts and faculty from mining programs around the
world to cross-pollinate knowledge and build these programs - in particular Australia and Canada have deep
academic expertise in the mining sector. The 2024 QS World University Rankings for mineral and mineral
engineering show that one out of the top 12 programs in the world are American - Colorado School of Mines. Of the
other 11, there are four in Australia and Canada and one in Russia, Chile and Saudi Arabia. n13

A key solution to achieving these two goals is to make existing mechanisms better fit for mining workforce
development. With that in mind, I can make three suggestions:

The first is creating a dedicated Fulbright program for mining, minerals processing, and recycling. There are already
a number of Fulbright programs - the Fulbright Arctic Initiative, the Fulbright Hays Program for K-14 teachers and
administrators, Fulbright United States Scholar program for United States scholars and artists, Fulbright European
Union Scholar-in-Residence (EUSIR) Program to strengthen United States expertise in European Affairs, and
Fulbright Specialist Program to send U.S. faculty abroad to serve as expert consults and do faculty development,
amongst others. A Fulbright program for mining to bring mining experts and faculty to the United States and send
undergraduate and graduate students to top mining institutions abroad offers a real opportunity to both establish
and expand mining programs in the United States and allow our students, particularly in STEM-related mining
fields, to develop the necessary skills and knowledge to enter the modern minerals workforce.

The second is increasing targeted funding to the National Science Foundation (NSF) for mining-related research
and capacity building. The NSF is an independent federal agency that supports science and engineering in all 50
U.S. states and U.S. territories. In 2023, the NSF's enacted budget was $9.9 billion, and they supported over 2,000
organizations in every state and US territory.

* The NSF has 15 focus areas - ranging from the arctic and Antarctic to astronomy and biology. Chemicals and
materials are perhaps the closest to the mining sector - but it's still not fit to building mining expertise. The objective
of this effort is "breakthroughs in chemistry and materials science that enhance nearly every aspect of daily life,
from pharmaceuticals to plastics, environmental cleanup to battling pandemics." Mining is notably absent. n14

* The NSF also has 11 technology focus areas - ranging from artificial intelligence to biotechnology and
cyberinfrastructure. n15 Advanced materials are closest to the mining industry and the institution notes that "NSF
invests in the discovery of new materials and processing methods that can unlock innovations across a wide range
of sectors -- such as medicine, agriculture, electronics, manufacturing, energy and national security." Mining is
inadequate in this program.

* Mining remains vastly underfunded by the NSF - just 9 of 815 - or 1.1 percent of active grant opportunities are for
minerals.

The CHIPS Act of 2022 (Section 10359) authorized funds for the NSF to increase its work on critical minerals
mining and development. n16 It includes provisions for institutions of higher education or nonprofits to offer training
and research opportunities to undergraduate and graduate students, preparing the next generation of mining
engineers and researchers. Funding for these programs has not been appropriated and could be included in the
appropriations legislation for fiscal year 2025.

And third, widen the sectoral scope of section 40211 of the IIJA which mandated that the Department of Energy
create a 21st Century Energy Workforce Advisory Board to evaluate the requirements of the domestic energy
workforce. The Board has also been mandated to develop strategies to provide opportunities for students to qualify
to work in the energy sector and identify avenues for the Department of Energy to work with federal agencies and
nongovernmental organizations to drive. n17 It is crucial for this program to go beyond an energy workforce and
examine the needs of the mining workforce since the mining sector is essential for the implementation of nearly all
new energy technologies. Without upstream support, the downstream renewable energy development will be
impossible.

                                                                                             Page 5 of 7
   Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety Hearing
                          "Digging Deeper: Building Our Critical Minerals Workforce."....

Partnerships Between Mining Companies and Universities

According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median age of a worker in the United States mining industry is 42,
which underscores the need to attract younger generations. n18 There needs to be a fundamental rebranding of the
mining industry. The report published by the United States Department of the Interior - Recommendations to
Improve Mining on Public Lands - in 2023 notes that "The mining industry is having difficulty attracting young
professionals and building a workforce. One major obstacle appears to be the negative public perception of the
industry." n19 There are two key areas for rebranding.

The first is that the industry is that the industry is tech-based. The modern mining industry is no longer one that
uses picks and wheelbarrows - it runs on satellite imaging, artificial intelligence, advanced analytics, automation,
robotics, and manufacturing 4.0. I've been to various mines that are entirely run out of what resembles a mission
control room - blasting, production, and transportation of minerals.

Second, significant advances have been made in further improving the environmental and social impacts of mining.
Responsible mining is a core focus area for nearly all Western companies. The mining industry has a goal of zero
fatalities and zero injuries, amongst a range of other Environmental, Social and Governance targets. In the United
States, injuries in mines have been reduced by 58 percent over the last 15 years while fatalities have decreased by
55 percent during that same time window. n20 Globally, institutions like the International Council of Minerals and
Metals (ICMM), a key industry association for responsible mining, have worked with their members to improve
human rights, health and safety, environmental performance, conservation of biodiversity, and social performance.
Earlier this year, the ICMM, Mining Association of Canada, World Gold Council and Copper Mark launched a
process to create a consolidated global standard for responsible mining.

This means that mining is more technology-based and responsible than ever before. From a financial perspective,
there is incentive for young people to go into mining. The average annual salary for a miner in 2023 was $94,848 -
which is well above the United States average wage of $72,609. This means that the average worker in the mining
industry makes 31 percent more than the national average. n21 Furthermore, as the shortage of workforce grows,
supply and demand dynamics should drive wages up further.

It is in the interest of mining companies to build their workforce, particularly with young people. Establishing a
federal program to coordinate collaboration between mining companies and universities to strengthen the
development of the mining workforce, particularly in STEM fields, enhance research and promote innovation in the
industry.

Mining companies can provide curriculum support to reflect the latest industry trends and technological
advancements and experts working in the mining sector can deliver guest lectures and conduct workshops to give
students field experience and share practical knowledge. Mining firms can also provide internships and co-op
programs so students can get paid hands-on experience ahead of graduation, for an easier and more experienced
transition to the workforce.

Another key avenue of support for the mining sector is by providing scholarships to students. This has long been
used in other mining jurisdictions. For example, in South Africa, where I worked for seven years, companies like
Anglo American have financed many students over the years on the condition that they come back and work for the
company after graduation. This is particularly useful to encourage socioeconomically disadvantaged students - who
are often underrepresented in the industry - to enter the field, thereby supporting diversity efforts.

Leveraging U.S. Military Academies to Build Tomorrow's Leaders

The primary purpose of U.S. military institutions including the United States Military Academy, United States Naval
Academy, United States Air Force Academy, and United States Coast Guard, amongst other institutions is to build
future military leaders. Academy-trained engineers built the railroads and bridges for westwards expansion and
were instrumental in the Industrial Revolution. It's time to enable them to answer the call for another national
security challenge.

                                                                                             Page 6 of 7
   Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety Hearing
                          "Digging Deeper: Building Our Critical Minerals Workforce."....

I was privileged to speak at West Point on critical minerals in February 2024. Lieutenant General Jonathan Braga -
who is serving as the commanding general of the United States Army Special Operations Command - provided the
keynote for the event. The interest from cadets afterward was clear. They are our future leaders - they will go on to
be political leaders, cabinet members, ambassadors, and even mining executives that can advance United States
mineral interests.

Mining executives have a key role to play in advancing strategic mining objectives, including talent development
and pursuing national security goals. They require an understanding of engineering, diplomacy and strategy. There
is a clear need to develop a workforce that is capable of leading mining companies. There are only two American
CEOs of large market cap mining companies that I'm aware of - Richard Adkerson at Freeport McMoRan and Bob
Wilt, an American West Point graduate and Army veteran from the Gulf War. After a long career at Alcoa, an
American company, Bob is now the CEO at Ma'aden, one of the fastest growing mining companies in the world.
The experience he gained in engineering, diplomacy and strategy at both West Point and his subsequent military
career has been valuable. Scaling up the number of American mining executives is critical if we are to build U.S.
leadership in the mining sector - and our military academies are an excellent place to do this.

At CSIS, we are planning the first national security and critical minerals summit, which will be held in October. Our
speakers will include many West Point alumni - former U.S. cabinet members, ambassadors and a mining
executive. Our goals are two-fold. The first is to give cadets much needed exposure to the importance of critical
minerals and what careers in the mining industry look like. The second is to give faculty more exposure to critical
minerals issues, which the United States has disregarded for the last 30 years. Upscaling support to initiatives like
this is key.

Conclusion

The future of meeting American minerals security needs will require both domestic and international mining given
the distribution of resources. In my conversations with industry, workforce shortages are universally cited as
limitation. The United States may have closed its Bureau of Mines in 1996 - but investing in workforce development
must be a priority to reduce our reliance on China. Without an adequate supply of mining engineers, geologists and
geoscientists, metallurgists, geophysicists, economists, and senior management that we can deploy domestically
and internationally, China will continue to have the upper hand, leaving our national, economic and energy security
highly vulnerable to disruption.

n1 US Department of the Interior. Recommendations to Improve Mining on Public Lands. September 2023.

n2 Baskaran, G. What China's Ban on Rare Earths Processing Technology Exports Means. Center for Strategic
and International Studies. January 8, 2024.

n3 Stanford University. Assessing the U.S.-China Competition for Minerals Crucial to the Development of Emerging
Technologies. October 1, 2023.

n4 National Mining Association. U.S. Reaches Highest Recorded Mineral Import Reliance. January 31, 2023.

n5 This includes 14 lanthanides, which are part of the rare earth elements group.

n6 Department of the Interior. Recommendations to Improve Mining on Public Lands. September 2023.

n7 US Department of Commerce. A Federal Strategy to Ensure Secure and Reliable Supplies of Critical Minerals.

n8 Barna, S., Hastings, A. and Pearce, M. 2023 NDAA Provides New Opportunities for Industry. National Defense
Magazine. February 7, 2023.

n9 Broberg, D. and Jacobs, J. Expanding Domestic Critical Mineral Supply Chains. Bipartisan Policy Center. March
15, 2023.

                                                                                            Page 7 of 7
  Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety Hearing
                         "Digging Deeper: Building Our Critical Minerals Workforce."....

n10 Has mining lost its luster? Why talent is moving elsewhere and how to bring them back. February 14, 2023.

n11 Hale, T. The United States Needs More than Mining Engineers to Solve Its Critical Mineral Challenges. May 8,
2023.

n12 US Department of the Interior. Recommendations to Improve Mining on Public Lands. September 2023.

n13     QS    World    University   Rankings     by    Subject    2024:    Mineral   and   Mining      Engineering.
https://www.topuniversities.com/university-subject-rankings/mineral-mining-engineering

n14 The full list of focus areas include the arctic and Antarctic to astronomy and chemistry and materials,
computing, diversity in STEM, earth and environment, education and training, engineering, facilities and
infrastructure, mathematics, people and society, physics, research partnerships and interdisciplinary convergence
and transformative research.

n15 The full list of the NSF's 11 technology focus areas is advanced manufacturing, advanced materials, artificial
intelligence, biotechnology, communications and wireless, cyberinfrastructure and advanced computing,
cybersecurity, disaster risk and resilience, energy technology, quantum information science and technology,
semiconductors and microcolonies

n16 H.R.4346 - Chips and Science Act. https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/4346

n17 Energy and Minerals Provisions in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (P.L. 117-58). Congressional
Research Service. https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R47034

n18 Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey. https://www.bls.gov/cps/cpsaat18b.htm

n19 United States Department of the Interior. Recommendations to Improve Mining on Public Lands. September
2023.

n20 National Mining Association. Improving Mine Safety and Health. https://nma.org/category/safety-and-health/

n21 National Mining Association. Annual Mining Wages vs. All Industries, 2023. https://nma.org/wp-
content/uploads/2023/06/annual_mining_wages_state_23-1.pdf

Read      this   original      document       at:    https://www.help.senate.gov/download/06/12/2024/baskaran-
testimony?download=1


Load-Date: June 14, 2024


  
