

                                                                                                Page 1 of 4
       World Bank : 'Assessing Power System Disruptions and Associated Economic Impacts From Increasing
                       Extreme Heat Events in Southeast Europe Using an Idealized Desi....




       World Bank: 'Assessing Power System Disruptions and Associated
      Economic Impacts From Increasing Extreme Heat Events in Southeast
                Europe Using an Idealized Design Methodology'
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            August 3, 2024 Saturday 7:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 2088 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The World Bank issued the following policy research working paper (No. WPS10858) entitled "Assessing Power
System Disruptions and Associated Economic Impacts from Increasing Extreme Heat Events in Southeast Europe
Using an Idealized Design Methodology."

Here are excerpts:

***

Abstract

As the world endeavors to decarbonize and shift toward sustainable energy sources, power systems will become
increasingly dependent on weather conditions. This dependence creates the challenge of managing fluctuations in
both power supply and demand (particularly for cooling), which can jeopardize system reliability, particularly during
extreme weather events. To what extent will the increases in peak cooling demands manifest more frequent power
system disruptions, posing risks to human health and economic activity? This paper focuses on urban centers in
Southeast Europe and utilizes state-of-the-art climate simulations to estimate changes in the magnitude of extreme
heat events. It also estimates the frequency of potential associated power system disruptions and their ensuing
impacts on economic activity by assuming an idealized design methodology.

The analysis reveals that between 2021 and 2070, urban centers in Southeast Europe may be at risk of an
estimated four to nine power system disruptions per decade due to increasing trends in extreme heat events. These
disruptions have the potential to incur annual economic costs of up to tens of millions of dollars in some cities. The
projected disruptions highlight the challenges of adapting power systems to climate change, even with idealized
regular redesign and maintenance efforts. To mitigate power system fragility during heat waves, the paper

                                                                                               Page 2 of 4
      World Bank : 'Assessing Power System Disruptions and Associated Economic Impacts From Increasing
                      Extreme Heat Events in Southeast Europe Using an Idealized Desi....

recommends implementing measures such as securing reserve power capacity, promoting urban cooling through
greening initiatives, adopting demand-side management with smart-grid infrastructure, and increasing the
deployment of solar power, which typically has high generation potential during heat waves.

This paper is a product of the Urban, Disaster Risk Management, Resilience and Land Global Practice. It is part of
a larger effort by the World Bank to provide open access to its research and make a contribution to development
policy discussions around the world. Policy Research Working Papers are also posted on the Web at
http://www.worldbank.org/prwp. The authors may be contacted at david.f@climate.ai, reisenberg1@worldbank.org,
and lbonnafous@worldbank.org

The Policy Research Working Paper Series disseminates the findings of work in progress to encourage the
exchange of ideas about development issues. An objective of the series is to get the findings out quickly, even if the
presentations are less than fully polished. The papers carry the names of the authors and should be cited
accordingly. The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this paper are entirely those of the authors.
They do not necessarily represent the views of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/World
Bank and its affiliated organizations, or those of the Executive Directors of the World Bank or the governments they
represent.

Introduction

As efforts to decarbonize progress, it is vital to ensure the reliability of power systems within the context of the
challenges of phasing out fossil fuels, aging transmission and distribution infrastructure, and increasing weather-
induced fluctuations on energy supply (i.e., wind, solar, and hydro-power) and demand (i.e., heating and cooling
demand). Even without these increasing challenges, the economic costs of unreliable critical infrastructure are
already costly, particularly in less developed countries. A 2019 World Bank report estimated that the cost of
unreliable infrastructure in 137 low- and middle-income countries (a cohort of countries that represents about 80
percent of the GDP of all low- and middle-income countries) was nearly $300 billion a year (about 1.5% of GDP),
with over half of that cost associated with electricity outages and the subsequent losses to sales and the costs of
self-generated electricity (Rentschler et al. 2019). A 2019 survey found that power outages in a typical month in
Kosovo, North Macedonia, Albania, and Serbia were estimated to occur about 8, 5, 4, and 2 times each month,
respectively (Dalloshi et al. n.d.).

Extreme demand for cooling is among the many reasons why power systems can fail to maintain reliable supply.
High temperatures heat the land surface and infrastructure, trigger the usage of air conditioning where available,
and cause some of the highest electricity demand spikes that systems experience (Franco et al. 2007, Waite et al.
2017). As such, periods of elevated electricity demand driven by hot temperatures are critical times for electrical
grids and can lead to soaring energy prices and, most critically, power outages or rolling blackouts (Hatvani-Kovacs
et al. 2016). Examples include the blackouts triggered in California in July 2018 when spikes in electricity demand
during a heat wave could not be met by the power system (Khan 2018). The July heat wave of 1995 was an even
more dire example, where power failures were partially to blame in the deaths of over 800 people in the United
States (Changnon et al. 1996). Furthermore, anthropogenic warming is expected to exacerbate these power system
reliability issues (Allen et al. 2016, Li et al. 2012, Franco et al. 2007, Miller et al. 2008) via rising temperatures, and
the anticipated increased adoption of air conditioning will lead to more energy systems being stressed during hot
times (Waite et al. 2017).

In addition to climate change's effects of exacerbating the magnitude of extreme heat, the trend of increasing
urbanization can also increase the magnitude of extreme cooling demand events for two reasons. First is the well-
known phenomenon of urban heat islands, whereby urban environments become substantially hotter than the
neighboring lands due to the increased absorption of energy (in the form of solar radiation) and reduced cooling
through evapotranspiration. Second, higher population density centralizes the demand for cooling during extreme
heat events in locations where air conditioning is available, thereby eliminating the natural process of smoothing
demand spikes via more spatially distributed demand nodes that are unlikely to all peak in cooling demands
simultaneously.

                                                                                                Page 3 of 4
       World Bank : 'Assessing Power System Disruptions and Associated Economic Impacts From Increasing
                       Extreme Heat Events in Southeast Europe Using an Idealized Desi....

Having established that the costs of power system blackouts are considerable, and that anthropogenic warming is
increasing the magnitude and frequency of heat waves, the goal of this paper is to use the latest generation of
climate projections to estimate the propensity of urban power systems to eclipse their design capacity as a result of
extreme cooling demands into the 21st century in major urban centers globally, with a special focus on the urban
centers of Southeast Europe (Figure 1). Secondarily, this paper provides estimates of the economic costs
associated with these urban power system disruptions. Lastly, this paper discusses the implications of increasing
extreme heat events on critical power (and energy) system infrastructure and what adaptive responses can help
ensure system reliability into the coming decades.

Urban Centers of Southeast Europe

Power system disruptions can be particularly salient in urban areas because of the high population density, the
potential for cascading failures due to interconnected and interdependent systems, and the concentration of
economic and industrial activities in and around urban centers. Higher population densities mean that more humans
are impacted by power system disruptions. The interconnected and interdependent nature of many critical systems
in urban settings, such as transportation and water systems, mean that power system interruptions can spark
cascading failures and disruptions to multiple systems. Lastly, due to the high concentration of businesses and
industries that rely on a stable power supply to operate in and around urban centers, urban power system
disruptions can result in substantial lost revenue, reduced productivity, and increased costs for businesses.

Figure 1: (a) Global map with the Southeast Europe region highlighted with a green rectangle; (b) the urban centers
included in the Southeast Europe regional analysis.

Power system disruptions can be especially difficult to prevent and respond to in cities in Southeast Europe due
primarily to aging infrastructure that has resulted from a lack of investment. Many cities in Southeast Europe have
not seen significant investment in their power infrastructure in recent years (Vasquez et al. 2018), which has led to
aging power infrastructure (e.g., power lines and transformers) that is more prone to failure and more difficult to
maintain, which in turn increases the likelihood and severity of power system disruptions.

Methodology

The goal of this paper is to estimate the trends in the occurrence of potential power system disruptions due to
power demand exceeding power supply during extreme heat waves. To accomplish this, we estimate the power
demands and power supply capacities using a variety of datasets and methods outlined below. We provide a set of
rough estimates of the economic impacts of these projected power system disruptions using a variety of datasets
and methods.

Data

We use the following data sources for the analysis underlying this paper.

* Historical temperature reanalysis data: Near-surface temperature (2 meters above the surface) at a spatial
resolution of 0.25 deg by 0.25 deg and a temporal resolution of hourly is acquired from the ERA-5 reanalysis
dataset (Hersbach 2018). We derive estimates for the maximum and minimum temperatures at the daily level by
taking the maximum and minimum of the hourly values for each day.

* Future temperature projections from climate model simulation data: Maximum and minimum hourly temperatures
over the previous 24 hours are acquired from Earth system model simulations from the Coupled Model
Intercomparison Project, phase 6 (CMIP6). We consider three shared socioeconomic pathways, namely SSP1
(Sustainability, taking the green road), SSP2 (middle of the road), and SSP5 (fossil-fueled development). SSP2
currently appears to be the most likely scenario from an emissions perspective (Pielke Jr et al. 2022). And while
SSP1 and SSP5 currently appear to be unlikely, understanding climate projections under these relatively extreme
scenarios provides us with a view of the full range of possibilities. Moving forward, we refer to these scenarios as
"low emissions" (SSP1), "middle of the road emissions" (SSP2), and "high emissions" (SSP5). We consider

                                                                                               Page 4 of 4
      World Bank : 'Assessing Power System Disruptions and Associated Economic Impacts From Increasing
                      Extreme Heat Events in Southeast Europe Using an Idealized Desi....

projections from the following global climate models: AWI-CM-1-1-MR, EC-Earth3-VegLR, FGOALS-g3, GFDL-
ESM4, INM-CM4-8, INM-CM5-0, IPSL-CM6A-LR, KACE-10-G, MIROC6, MPI-ESM1-2-HR, MPI-ESM1-2-LR, MRI-
ESM2-0, and NESM3 since each of these models has less than 2% missing daily values, over the full simulation
period of 1979 to 2100, for each of the three socioeconomic scenarios considered here.

* Economic data: Gross domestic product (GDP) estimates, based on purchasing power parity, at a resolution of 30
seconds in both latitude and longitude (i.e., a spatial resolution of just under 1 km in the region of Southeast
Europe) from Kummu et al. (2018). We use estimates from the year 2015 since these are the most recent available
estimates.

Quantile Delta Mapping Post-Processing for CMIP6 Simulations

We post-process the Earth system model simulations using a quantile mapping method, which corrects systematic
distributional biases in climate model output data by removing historical biases relative to observations. Specifically,
we apply the Quantile Delta Mapping (QDM) method (Cannon et al. 2015) in order to preserve the trends in the
climate model simulations in such a way as to ensure that the climate sensitivity (i.e., the temperature response to
greenhouse gas forcing) of the model is not affected by bias correction. QDM adjusts the distribution of simulated
climate data to more closely match the distribution of observed (or reanalysis) climate data, while preserving the
magnitude of the trends in each of the quantiles. Quantile Delta Mapping is described in detail, including
presentation of the underlying equations, in the Supplementary Material.

***

The                       report                     is                    posted                   at:
https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/en/099423207222420953/pdf/IDU1166500ae1c95e149071addf107c246
c2c9dc.pdf

Copyright Targeted News Services

null-8759826 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: August 4, 2024


  
