

                                                                                                            Page 1 of 4
                 Brazilian students explore AI and infrastructure resiliency at Rice amid Hurricane Beryl




     Brazilian students explore AI and infrastructure resiliency at Rice amid
                                 Hurricane Beryl
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              July 26, 2024 Friday 10:47 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1711 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: HOUSTON, Texas

Body


Rice University issued the following news release:

Two days before Hurricane Beryl swept across Houston leaving millions without power in its wake, a group of
undergraduate students and faculty from Brazil arrived on Rice University's campus to spend a week exploring the
role of artificial intelligence (AI) in sustainability and natural disaster resiliency practices.

The hurricane provided a fitting background to the group's visit the culmination of a knowledge and cultural
exchange program funded through the 100,000 Strong in the Americas initiative, which supports higher education
partnerships between the United States and countries in the Americas aimed at fostering educational and cross-
cultural exchange and collaboration across borders through student mobility.

Brazilian students and faculty and U.S. hosts in the IFCE-Rice-SENAI program participated in a weeklong, in-
person meeting at Rice as part of a yearlong initiative aiming to establish a long-term US-Brazil research and
education collaboration between the three institutions. (Photo by Gustavo Raskosky/Rice University)A partnership
between Rice, Instituto Federal de Educacao, Ciencia e Tecnologia do Ceara (IFCE) and Instituto SENAI de
Inovacao para Tecnologias da Informacao e Comunicacao (SENAI), the program integrated research and
development, education, cultural understanding and local partnerships to explore ways of rendering infrastructure
systems more resilient in the face of hydroclimate extremes.

"In an interconnected world, crises are no longer contained at the local level, so efforts to address issues like
flooding and heat waves have to not only face the specifics of local contexts but also engage with these questions
on a broader scale," said Arlei Silva, an assistant professor of computer science at Rice who spearheaded the
project. "We partnered with two higher education institutions in northeastern Brazil to develop what we envisioned
as a first-of-its-kind, pilot program consisting of coursework, internships and structured international student
exchange both online and in person designed to offer students a better understanding of sustainability and

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 4
               Brazilian students explore AI and infrastructure resiliency at Rice amid Hurricane Beryl

resilience in urban settings, specifically in terms of how AI can be used to grapple with issues such as flood and
power outage prediction, traffic disruption and infrastructure optimization."

During its stay, the group visited a number of cultural and educational sites in Houston, including the Houston
Space Center, the Houston downtown tunnel system, Waterwall Park and the Bilingual Education Institute. At Rice,
the visitors toured the Rice360 Institute for Global Health Technologies and the Oshman Engineering Design
Kitchen, attended a series of talks by Rice faculty and affiliates, met with the Rice Brazilian Student Association
(BRASA) and the Brazil-Texas Chamber of Commerce and more.

Arlei Silva is an assistant professor of computer science at Rice University and lead investigator on the program
titled "IFCE-Rice-SENAI Program on Artificial Intelligence for Urban Sustainability and Resilience to Natural
Disasters in the Americas." (Photo by Gustavo Raskosky/Rice University)The focus of the visit was a workshop
featuring student presentations on their yearlong projects exploring AI methods for improving infrastructure systems
to better handle hydroclimate extremes.

"It was amazing to see the results of this group's hard work and enthusiasm, especially as we were experiencing
exactly the type of event that we'd been discussing in the time leading up to this weeklong, in-person exchange,"
Silva said. "For the students, this helped drive home some of the lessons from throughout the year, because it
made everything sink in in a very real way. They wouldn't typically have to worry about a weather event like Beryl in
the area in Brazil where they are from, so this was, in a way, an opportunity to underscore how important and timely
this work is (Brazil is also impacted by flooding but not hurricanes)."

Silva added that he was grateful for the support from the Rice community that made the visit a success despite the
storm.

"I would like to thank speakers in the workshops and lectures, tour guides and hosts, undergraduate and graduate
students who met with the visitors and Rice staff who helped with all the logistics, including the essential workers
who allowed us to use the campus during that week, even as some of them were without power at home," he said.

Brazilian students giving project presentations (Photo courtesy of Arlei Silva/Rice University)The highlight of the trip
was a ceremony inducting the visitors as honorary Texans officiated by Adria Baker, who is a Rice lecturer and
previously served as the associate vice provost for International Education and Brasil@Rice.

"Experiencing a different culture firsthand has a transformative impact, and it was a joy and an honor to help
welcome this group from Brazil during their visit," said Baker, who collaborated with Silva on the 100,000 Strong in
the Americas funding opportunity and played a pivotal role throughout the project proposal preparation and
implementation.

One of the participating students, Elyenay Mikaelle Nascimento Bandeira, said the program offered an inspiring
experience that broadened her perspective.

"I am the third person in my entire family to have a degree, and I am the first engineer," said Bandeira, a fifth-year
forestry engineering student at Rural Federal University of Pernambuco and a cartography intern at SENAI. "I never
thought that one day I would have the opportunity to participate in a program such as 100,000 Strong in the
Americas and experience Rice University, but I did, and it made me start dreaming bigger."

Julio Vieira da Silva, a second-year student in telecommunications engineering at IFCE, said taking part in the
program allowed him to develop a new perspective on problem-solving.

"This journey not only enhanced my skills but also opened my eyes to the importance of interdisciplinary
collaboration and technological innovation in problem-solving," da Silva said. "I realized that by integrating different
areas of knowledge, we can create more efficient and impactful solutions to real-world challenges."

Other co-principal investigators on the project are James Doss-Gollin, assistant professor of civil and environmental
engineering at Rice; Carlos Mauricio Jaborandy de Mattos Dourado Jr., associate professor at IFCE; and Geraldo
Gomes da Cruz Junior, specialist industrial researcher at SENAI.

                                                                                                          Page 3 of 4
               Brazilian students explore AI and infrastructure resiliency at Rice amid Hurricane Beryl

One of the goals of the IFCE-Rice-SENAI collaboration is to train a new generation of Brazilian and American
students on AI for infrastructure, climate and urban data, and to partner with affected stakeholder groups in their
respective communities to address ongoing and future challenges caused by extreme weather in the Americas.
(Photo by Gustavo Raskosky/Rice University)In addition to being the recipient of an award through the 2021 U.S.-
Brazil Innovation Fund Grant Competition supported by the U.S. Department of State, SENAI and Partners of the
Americas, the IFCE-Rice-SENAI program is also partially funded through a Google Research exploreCSR award.
Additional partners of the program include Rice's George R. Brown School of Engineering, Office of International
Students and Scholars, the Ken Kennedy Institute, the Brasil@Rice Office and BRASA.

Video is available at:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CguDSWzV1qc &t=2s

Description: This program between Rice University, Instituto Federal de Educacao, Ciencia e Tecnologia do Ceara
and Instituto SENAI de Inovacao para Tecnologias da Informacao e Comunicacao integrates research and
development, education and local partnerships to improve infrastructure systems to better handle hydroclimate
extremes. The goal of the program is to train a new generation of students, in partnership with local stakeholders, in
artificial intelligence for infrastructure, climate and urban data to address challenges caused by extreme weather.
In the end, the program will lead to innovations in construction and engineering, transportation infrastructure and
software sectors by developing new AI and big data software for the design of resilient infrastructure.

Image downloads:

https://news-network.rice.edu/news/files/2024/07/240711_Brazilian-Delegation_Gustavo-6.jpg

CAPTION: Arlei Silva is an assistant professor of computer science at Rice University and lead investigator on the
program titled "IFCE-Rice-SENAI Program on Artificial Intelligence for Urban Sustainability and Resilience to
Natural Disasters in the Americas." (Photo by Gustavo Raskosky/Rice University)https://news-
network.rice.edu/news/files/2024/07/240711_Brazilian-Delegation_Gustavo-10.jpg

CAPTION: Brazilian students and faculty and U.S. hosts in the IFCE-Rice-SENAI program participated in a
weeklong, in-person meeting at Rice as part of a yearlong initiative aiming to establish a long-term US-Brazil
research and education collaboration between the three institutions. (Photo by Gustavo Raskosky/Rice
University)https://news-network.rice.edu/news/files/2024/07/student-presentations.jpg

CAPTION: Brazilian students giving project presentations (Photo courtesy of Arlei Silva/Rice
University)https://news-network.rice.edu/news/files/2024/07/240711_Brazilian-Delegation_Gustavo-9.jpg

CAPTION: One of the goals of the IFCE-Rice-SENAI collaboration is to train a new generation of Brazilian and
American students on AI for infrastructure, climate and urban data, and to partner with affected stakeholder groups
in their respective communities to address ongoing and future challenges caused by extreme weather in the
Americas.           (Photo           by          Gustavo           Raskosky/Rice             University)https://news-
network.rice.edu/news/files/2024/07/240711_Brazilian-Delegation_Gustavo-3.jpg

CAPTION: Brazilian students engage in discussion following a lecture by Tilsa Ore Monago, a lecturer for the
Master of Energy Economics program at Rice University and a fellow in energy and market design at Rice's Baker
Institute for Public Policy. (Photo by Gustavo Raskosky/Rice University)

***

Original text here: https://news.rice.edu/news/2024/brazilian-students-explore-ai-and-infrastructure-resiliency-rice-
amid-hurricane-beryl

Copyright Targeted News Services

                                                                                                         Page 4 of 4
              Brazilian students explore AI and infrastructure resiliency at Rice amid Hurricane Beryl

MSTRUCK-8744940 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 26, 2024


  
