

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
                                               ePlus Announces Azure Recover




                                      ePlus Announces Azure Recover
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           June 26, 2024 Wednesday 8:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 653 words
Dateline: HERNDON, Va., June 26, 2024

Body


PR NewswireePlus Disaster Recovery-as-a-Service (DRaaS) offering, powered by Azure Site Recovery, protects
workloads living on-premises, in Azure, or in other cloudsHERNDON, Va., June 26, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- ePlus
inc. (NASDAQ NGS:PLUS–news) today announced the launch of Azure Recover, a fully-managed DRaaS solution.
Powered by Azure Site Recovery, ePlus Azure Recover helps organizations safeguard their critical services with
geographic resilience to provide confident recovery in the event of disaster.

 The new offering includes:Fully-automated monthly testingFailover event support and ongoing operational support
post-failoverContinuous recovery validation"We are pleased to offer ePlus Azure Recover, which enables our
customers to shrink recovery time objectives and provide the data protection necessary to maintain compliance,
garner brand trust, and keep their business running when unforeseen events occur," said Justin Mescher, vice
president of artificial intelligence, cloud, and data center solutions at ePlus. "By leveraging a proven disaster
recovery operating model that revolves around continuous, automated testing and validation, ePlus Azure Recover
provides peace of mind that their critical workloads will perform with the same security and performance they
expect, even when unexpected circumstances arise."More information about ePlus Azure Recover for Disaster
Recovery-as-a-Service       can    be    found    athttps://discover.eplus.com/onepager/eplus-azure-recover/.About
ePlusinc.ePlus has an unwavering and relentless focus on leveraging technology to create inspired and
transformative business outcomes for its customers. Offering a robust portfolio of solutions, as well as a broad
range of consultative and managed services across the technology spectrum, ePlus has proudly achieved more
than 30 years of success, carrying customers forward through adversity, rapidly changing environments, and other
obstacles. ePlus is a trusted advisor, bringing expertise, credentials, talent and a thorough understanding of
innovative technologies, spanning security, cloud, data center, networking, collaboration and emerging solutions, to
organizations across all industry segments. With complete lifecycle management services and flexible payment
solutions, ePlus' more than 1,900 associates are focused on cultivating positive customer experiences and are
dedicated to their craft, harnessing new knowledge while applying decades of proven experience. ePlus is
headquartered in Virginia, with locations in the United States, UK, Europe, and Asia–Pacific. For more information,
visitwww.eplus.com, call 888-482-1122, or email . Connect with ePlus onLinkedIn,X,Facebook, andInstagram.
ePlus, Where Technology Means More®.ePlus®, Where Technology Means More®, and ePlus products
referenced herein are either registered trademarks or trademarks of ePlus inc. in the United States and/or other
countries. The names of other companies, products, and services mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their
respective owners.Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release contains information about management's
view of ePlus' future expectations, plans and prospects that are not historical facts and may be deemed to be

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                                          ePlus Announces Azure Recover

"forward-looking statements." Actual and anticipated future results may vary materially due to certain risks and
uncertainties. Certain risks and uncertainties that may affect such "forward-looking statements" are detailed in our
reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially under the heading "Risk Factors". All
information set forth in this press release is current as of the date of this release and ePlus expressly disclaims any
duty or obligation to update this information, except as may be required by law. View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/eplus-announces-azure-recover-302182810.htmlSOURCE
EPLUS INC.


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
