

                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
    New Hampshire Insurance Department Outlines Key Federal Measures to Enhance Market Competitiveness
                     and Consumer Protection in Meetings With Congressional Delega....




   New Hampshire Insurance Department Outlines Key Federal Measures to
   Enhance Market Competitiveness and Consumer Protection in Meetings
                     With Congressional Delegation
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              July 2, 2024 Tuesday 9:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 606 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: CONCORD, New Hampshire

Body


The New Hampshire Department of Insurance issued the following news release:

The New Hampshire Insurance Department (NHID) has issued a comprehensive letter to the state's Congressional
delegation, summarizing discussions about critical issues affecting New Hampshire consumers. The discussions
took place during the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) annual DC "Fly-In" event on May
21-23, 2024.

Commissioner Bettencourt, along with Deputy Commissioner Nyhan, highlighted the need for federal measures to
enhance market competitiveness, support consumers, and promote free enterprise. The letter summarized several
key points from their meeting:

* Property and Casualty Markets & Resiliency Projects: Addressing challenges such as weather-related events,
inflation, supply chain disruptions, and litigation costs, the NHID is developing a grant program to assist
homeowners in fortifying their homes against various risks. This initiative aims to reduce insurance premiums and
enhance market conditions. Additionally, the department supports the Bipartisan Bicameral Disaster Mitigation and
Tax Parity Act, which seeks to exclude qualified catastrophe mitigation payments from income tax.

* Improper Marketing of Medicare Advantage (MA) Plans: The NHID urges reconsideration of the provision within
the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 that limits state oversight on MA marketing to safeguard consumers from
deceptive practices. Commissioner Bettencourt calls for collaboration between federal and state authorities to
strengthen enforcement of consumer protection laws.

* Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA) Grants: Emphasizing the importance of ensuring
compliance with MHPAEA, the NHID advocates for full funding of grants to enforce mental health parity laws. The

                                                                                           Page 2 of 2
   New Hampshire Insurance Department Outlines Key Federal Measures to Enhance Market Competitiveness
                    and Consumer Protection in Meetings With Congressional Delega....

department requests that the $10 million per year authorized by Congress for five years be fully appropriated for FY
2025.

* Support for Reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP): Long-term funding for NFIP is
crucial for flood mitigation and insurance market growth. The NHID supports reauthorization that encourages flood
mitigation, facilitates private flood insurance market growth, and assists states in improving overall flood
preparedness.

* Restraint of Federal Regulation in the Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) Systems by Insurers: While
acknowledging the benefits of AI in insurance, the NHID stresses the importance of consumer protection. The
department recently issued a modified version of the NAIC Model Bulletin on the Use of AI Systems in insurance,
setting forth expectations on governance and compliance with insurance laws. The NHID urges the federal
government to allow states to balance innovation with consumer protection.

The Insurance Department remains committed to supporting New Hampshire's Congressional delegation and
serving constituents. For additional information or assistance, please contact the NHID.

The New Hampshire Insurance Department Can Help

The New Hampshire Insurance Department's mission is to promote and protect the public good by ensuring the
existence of a safe and competitive insurance marketplace through the development and enforcement of the
insurance laws of the State of New Hampshire. Contact us with any questions or concerns you may have regarding
your insurance coverage at 1-800- 852-3416 or (603) 271-2261, or by email at consumerservices@ins.nh.gov

***

Original text here: https://www.insurance.nh.gov/news-and-media/new-hampshire-insurance-department-outlines-
key-federal-measures-enhance-market

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8703994 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 2, 2024


  
