

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 2
                         MSU Takes on Leadership Role in $67M NSF Research Security Effort




      MSU Takes on Leadership Role in $67M NSF Research Security Effort
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                             July 30, 2024 Tuesday 9:20 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 560 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: STARKVILLE, Mississippi

Body


(TNSres) -- Mississippi State University issued the following news:

Mississippi State University is taking on a leadership role in a national effort to enhance U.S. research security.

MSU is part of a National Science Foundation-funded and University of Washington-led coalition establishing the
Safeguarding the Entire Community of the U.S. Research Ecosystem (SECURE) Center. The center, which is
receiving $67 million from the NSF over five years, will enable a national platform for protecting U.S. research
investments, especially research that has national security implications.

Narcisa Pricope, MSU associate vice president for research, will serve as the principal investigator for the
university's portion of the grant. MSU, along with the Hoover Institute and University of Michigan, is co-leading the
Functional Expert Area, focused on a wide range of security concerns such as high-risk research areas, threat
types, geopolitical analysis and international relations. MSU is one of nine institutions of higher education
nationwide supporting the effort.

"Every day, institutions like MSU are conducting research that is critical to our shared national security, while also
forging international connections that broaden our expertise and enhance our capabilities," Pricope said. "As
universities, we must adapt our practices to a constantly changing geopolitical environment so that we can both
grow global connections and protect U.S. research investments. I am proud that MSU will play a key role in
developing the solutions that will foster continued research security and integrity."

The MSU team will closely examine several technology areas that have been identified as high risk by the NSF's
Directorate for Technology, Innovation and Partnerships and their research security implications. Those areas
include advanced manufacturing and materials, artificial intelligence and biotechnology, communications and
cyberinfrastructure, disaster risk and resilience, energy technology, quantum information science and
semiconductors/microelectronics.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
                      MSU Takes on Leadership Role in $67M NSF Research Security Effort

"NSF is committed to principled international collaboration. At the same time, we must address threats to the
research enterprise," said NSF Director Sethuraman Panchanathan in announcing the funding. "The SECURE
Center is how we bring the research community together to identify risks, share information and leverage national
expertise on research security to develop solutions that protect essential research being done at institutions across
the nation. This is a community-focused platform, and the research community will be the drivers of how SECURE
Center tools and services are designed, used and improved upon."

In addition to Pricope, MSU Research Security Officer Chris Jenkins and Department of Geosciences Professor
Andrew Mercer will support the new SECURE Center. MSU's funding from the project also will support a graduate
student to help develop dashboards and visualizations for broader use by the national research community.

For more information on the SECURE Center, visit https://new.nsf.gov/news/nsf-backed-secure-center-will-support-
research.

***

Original text here: https://www.msstate.edu/newsroom/article/2024/07/msu-takes-leadership-role-67m-nsf-research-
security-effort

Contact: James Carskadon, jmc603@msstate.edu

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8749613 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: July 30, 2024


  
