

                                                                                   Page 1 of 2
          DOT HELD 1ST NETWORKING EVENT OF SANGAM-DIGITAL TWIN INITIATIVE AT IIT DELHI




         DOT HELD 1ST NETWORKING EVENT OF SANGAM-DIGITAL TWIN
                          INITIATIVE AT IIT DELHI
                                                States News Service
                                              June 20, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 535 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: NEW DELHI, India

Body


The following information was released by the Government of India:

The Event brought out comprehensive blueprints for Digital Twin-enabled solutions, addressing challenges and
leveraging diverse data sources

Secretary (T) Dr Neeraj Mittal highlights the importance of harnessing data to solve real-world problems by
collaboration amongst participants

Sangam Networking Event in Delhi has brought out comprehensive blueprints for Digital Twin-enabled solutions,
addressing challenges and leveraging diverse data sources. These outputs will guide the design and architecture of
solutions, define roles for various parties, identify potential customers, outline funding structures, establish
governance mechanisms, and create roadmaps for implementation.

The first Networking Event of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT)'s Sangam - Digital Twin initiative, was
successfully hosted by IIT Delhi, on June 18-19 2024. The event brought together over 100 participants, including
representatives from leading companies to discuss innovative digital solutions across various sectors.

It featured breakout discussions on key verticals and use cases such as

Multimodal Transport Planning,

Enhancing Healthcare Access and Service,

Assessment of Environmental Quality,

Disaster Response System Management.

Additionally, following horizontal topics were covered

Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PETs),

                                                                                  Page 2 of 2
         DOT HELD 1ST NETWORKING EVENT OF SANGAM-DIGITAL TWIN INITIATIVE AT IIT DELHI

Data Provider and AI Governance Framework,

Virtual World Creation and Interaction Capabilities,

Mathematical Modelling and Physics-Based Simulations.

Addressing the participants, Dr. Neeraj Mittal, Secretary, Telecommunications, said "Our goal is to develop viable
projects, secure funding, and present them to the government to demonstrate the feasibility of creating a
infrastructure planning tool for national-level".

He informed that during these initiatives have set in motion a lot of collaboration amongst participants to be able to
do good projects, create new ideas, new knowledge and new capabilities.

Participants collaborated to develop innovative, holistic solutions addressing economic, social, and environmental
factors. Emphasizing cross-sectoral data driven infrastructure, the discussions explored integrating data from
diverse sources while ensuring privacy preservation through advanced technologies. The event highlighted the
importance of AI-driven insights and collaborative environments in solving contemporary challenges.

The upcoming networking events are planned in IIT Bombay on 25-26 June 2024, PES University, Bangalore on 3-
4 July 2024 and T-Hub, Hyderabad on 10-11 July 2024. DoT is looking forward for participation of all stakeholders
in the upcoming events.

DoT extends gratitude to all participants and companies for their active engagement, setting the stage for
transformative advancements in digital solutions.

About Sangam- The Sangam initiative, aims at revolutionizing infrastructure planning and design through the
utilization of cutting-edge technologies and collective intelligence, has garnered significant attention since its
unveiling. It represents a collaborative effort to harness the power of technology and collective intelligence for
sustainable and efficient infrastructure solution.


Load-Date: June 20, 2024


  
