

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
  Intermap Announces Private Placement Financing Proceeds to fund contracts with the Indonesian government,
                                      U.S. Air Force and other clients




   Intermap Announces Private Placement Financing; Proceeds to fund
 contracts with the Indonesian government, U.S. Air Force and other clients
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              July 3, 2024 Wednesday 5:53 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: FINANCING AGREEMENTS
Length: 1471 words

Body


DENVER, July 03, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Intermap Technologies (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF) (“Intermap”
or the “Company”), a global leader in 3D geospatial products and intelligence solutions, announces a new financing.
The Company is offering up to a maximum of 4,300,000 Class “A” common shares of the Company (“Common
Shares”), which upon issuance, will rank pari passu in all respects with the Company’s existing issued Common
Shares, at a price of C$0.45 per Share for maximum gross proceeds of C$1,935,000.00 (the “Offering”).

In connection with this Offering, Intermap has engaged a third-party finder (the “Finder”) to conduct a best-efforts
private placement of the Common Shares. The Finder will receive a fee of: (i) an aggregate cash fee equal to 1% of
the gross proceeds of the Offering; and (ii) an issuance of Common Shares equal to 6% of the Common Shares
placed by the Finder under the Offering.

The Company intends to use the aggregate net proceeds of the Offering for the execution of contracts and for
working capital. Primarily, the capital will be used to execute on its contract with the Indonesian government to map
the island of Sulawesi as well as on a renewed and expanded contract with the U.S. Air Force. The net proceeds of
the Offering may also be used in connection with other Southeast Asian contract awards as well as a major renewal
and expansion of a global insurance client agreement. Further details on the use of proceeds are set forth in the
Offering Document.

Intermap has received its special area permit from Indonesia. The Company has completed upgrades to its aircraft
platform and IFSAR systems. Intermap has also met the first pre-deployment milestones and completed all
associated contracting. As part of its preparation for deployment, Intermap acquired best-in-class, new hardware

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
  Intermap Announces Private Placement Financing Proceeds to fund contracts with the Indonesian government,
                                      U.S. Air Force and other clients

from VeriDaaS at attractive pricing. The upgraded technology infrastructure ensures speed, stability, security and
flexibility as the Company executes its strategic repositioning.

The Offering is expected to close in one or more tranches between the date hereof and August 16, 2024 and is
subject to certain conditions including, but not limited to, the receipt of all necessary regulatory and other approvals.

Subject to compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, the Common Shares will be offered for sale to
purchasers resident in Canada (except Quebec) pursuant to the listed issuer financing exemption under Part 5A of
National Instrument 45-106 – Prospectus Exemptions (the “Listed Issuer Financing Exemption”) and to purchasers
resident in the United States by way of private placement pursuant to an exemption from the registration
requirements under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “1933 Act”). Because the Offering is
being completed pursuant to the Listed Issuer Financing Exemption, the securities issued in Canada under the
Offering will not be subject to a hold period in Canada pursuant to applicable Canadian securities laws.

The offering document related to this Offering (the “Offering Document”) that can be accessed under the
Company’s profile at www.sedarplus.ca and on Intermap’s website at www.intermap.com. Prospective investors
should read this Offering Document before making an investment decision.

The securities described herein have not been, and will not be, registered under the 1933 Act, or any state
securities laws, and accordingly, may not be offered or sold within the United States except in compliance with the
registration requirements of the 1933 Act and applicable state securities requirements or pursuant to exemptions
therefrom. This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there
be any sale of the securities in the United States or in any other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale
would be unlawful.

The Company also entered into a capital markets advisory agreement (the “Sophic Capital Agreement”) with Sophic
Capital for the provision of investor relations services to the Company. Pursuant to the terms of the Sophic Capital
Agreement, Sophic Capital will assist the Company in the preparation of an investor communications plan, investor
materials, news releases, road shows and conference calls. The Sophic Capital Agreement is for a term of 12
months. The Sophic Capital Agreement will automatically renew for successive periods of six months. Either party
may terminate the Sophic Capital Agreement with 30 days prior written notice.

Intermap Reader Advisory Certain information provided in this news release, including reference to the availability
of proceeds from the Offering, the Company’s ability to raise up to the maximum proceeds of the Offering, the use
of proceeds of the Offering, the expectation that the Offering will close and the anticipated timing thereof and the
award of new contracts and contract renewals and the use of proceeds in the Offering in connection therewith,
constitutes forward-looking statements. The words “will”, “intends”, “expected to”, “subject to” and similar
expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Although Intermap believes that these
statements are based on information and assumptions which are current, reasonable and complete, these
statements are necessarily subject to a variety of known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Intermap’s forward-
looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties pertaining to, among other things, cash available to fund
operations, availability of capital, revenue fluctuations, the nature of government contracts, including changing
political circumstances in the relevant jurisdictions, economic conditions, loss of key customers, retention and
availability of executive talent, competing technologies, common share price volatility, loss of proprietary
information, software functionality, internet and system infrastructure functionality, information technology security,
breakdown of strategic alliances, and international and political considerations, as well as those risks and
uncertainties discussed Intermap’s Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2023 and other
securities filings. While the Company makes these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of
these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary
significantly from those expected. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the
forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what benefits that the Company will
derive therefrom. All subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, attributable to Intermap or
persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
  Intermap Announces Private Placement Financing Proceeds to fund contracts with the Indonesian government,
                                      U.S. Air Force and other clients

looking statements contained in this news release are made as at the date of this news release and the Company
does not undertake any obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking statements made
herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable
securities law.

About Intermap Technologies

Founded in 1997 and headquartered in Denver, Colorado, Intermap (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF) is a global leader
in geospatial intelligence solutions, focusing on the creation and analysis of 3D terrain data to produce high-
resolution thematic models. Through scientific analysis of geospatial information and patented sensors and
processing technology, the Company provisions diverse, complementary, multi-source datasets to enable
customers to seamlessly integrate geospatial intelligence into their workflows. Intermap’s 3D elevation data and
software analytic capabilities enable global geospatial analysis through artificial intelligence and machine
learning, providing customers with critical information to understand their terrain environment. By leveraging its
proprietary archive of the world’s largest collection of multi-sensor global elevation data, the Company’s collection
and processing capabilities provide multi-source 3D datasets and analytics at mission speed, enabling governments
and companies to build and integrate geospatial foundation data with actionable insights. Applications for
Intermap’s products and solutions include defense, aviation and UAV flight planning, flood and wildfire insurance,
disaster mitigation, base mapping, environmental and renewable energy planning, telecommunications,
engineering, critical infrastructure monitoring, hydrology, land management, oil and gas and transportation.

For more information, please visit www.intermap.com               or    contact:Patrick   A.   BlottChairman     and
CEOCEO@intermap.com +1 (303) 708-0955


Load-Date: July 3, 2024


  
