

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 2
                             SAS Hackathon helps develop AI skills and solve big challenges




          SAS Hackathon helps develop AI skills and solve big challenges
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           August 22, 2024 Thursday 9:09 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 747 words
Dateline: CARY, N.C., Aug. 22, 2024

Body


PR NewswireRegister by Aug. 30 for this unique 100-team, 30-day eventCARY, N.C., Aug. 22, 2024 /PRNewswire/
-- A recent survey by data and AI leader SAS found that organizations around the globe are keenly interested
ingenerative AI(GenAI) technologies. But they don't know how to ensure that GenAI delivers value.

 In #SASHackathon, teams use AI and analytics to solve business and humanitarian challenges. Registration
closes Aug. 30.Enter theSAS Hackathon, a monthlong, all-digital event beginning Sept. 16 in which teams of
participants collaborate and compete to find the best solutions to business and humanitarian challenges using the
latest AI and advanced analytics. Registration is open until Aug. 30.Through the Hackathon, participants can
explore entrepreneurial approaches, network with fellow innovators and SAS mentors, and try out the latest
technologies like SAS' data and AI platformSAS® Viya®, synthetic data generatorSAS Data Maker, and GenAI
personal assistant SAS Viya Copilot.In the process, teams can create applications that can solve real-world
challenges and improve lives.Changing the world through data and AILast year's winner is a great example. The
city of Jakarta, Indonesia – the largest city in Southeast Asia – has been implementing a digital Smart City
transformation since 2019 to enhance public services.In the 2023 SAS Hackathon, Team JaWaRA (Jakarta Water
Resources Analytics) used AI and IoT analytics to analyze real-time data on rainfall, water levels and river flow to
better predict and prevent flooding – a problem that has worsened due to climate change. The project is now in use
in Jakarta, supporting an early warning system that can push flood notifications to residents in high-risk districts and
alert city officials to close flood gates, activate water pumps, and take further measures to prevent or prepare for
flooding.It was the second Hackathon winner in a row from Jakarta: In 2022, Team JAKSTAT created a machine
learning-based platform to optimize the distribution of COVID relief funds to small businesses.The Hackathon
winners weren't the only teams making a difference:A US team created a visual dashboard to explore forced labor
by country, industry and commodity, giving organizations better visibility into their supply chains.A Turkish team,
motivated by challenges in the response to the Turkish earthquake of February 2023, created a model to aid in
disaster response.A US banking team built an online carbon-footprint tracker that works alongside transactions in
bank accounts, empowering consumers to see the real-time impact of their purchases, make informed decisions
and receive suggestions for reducing their carbon footprint.All told, last year's SAS Hackathon attracted 1,431
registrants from 69 countries. 107 teams representing 205 organizations started the Hackathon; 72 teams
completed their hacks.A competition across industries – and time zonesTeam members in the Hackathon can
be – and often are – located on different continents. SAS experts will also lead industry-specific tracks: banking;
energy; health care & life sciences; IoT; insurance; public sector; retail, consumer goods & manufacturing; telecom
& media; and new for this year, a student track. Winners will be announced Nov. 20, live on YouTube and

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
                         SAS Hackathon helps develop AI skills and solve big challenges

LinkedIn.Longtime SAS partners Microsoft and Intel are the sponsors of this year's Hackathon. With SAS, Microsoft
and Intel put data and AI to work and deliver insights that improve lives."I encourage you to gather a team, choose
a challenging problem and enter the SAS Hackathon," said Alex Boakye, SAS Vice President of Solutions
Development and executive sponsor of the SAS Hackathon. "We welcome all creative thinkers and problem-
solvers, visionaries and data scientists, the curious and the passionate."About SASSAS is a global leader in data
and AI. With SAS software and industry-specific solutions, organizations transform data into trusted decisions. SAS
gives you THE POWER TO KNOW®.SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered
trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other
brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2024 SAS Institute Inc. All
rights reserved. View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sas-
hackathon-helps-develop-ai-skills-and-solve-big-challenges-302228204.htmlSOURCE SAS


Load-Date: August 22, 2024


  
