

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                      Ecrio and GXC Win Award in NSIN Catastrophic Communications Challenge




Ecrio and GXC Win Award in NSIN Catastrophic Communications Challenge
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           July 17, 2024 Wednesday 1:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1007 words
Dateline: AUSTIN, Texas and CUPERTINO, Calif., July 17, 2024

Body


PR NewswireEcrio's iota-e Software Integrates with GXC ONYX™ Solution to Offer 5G Critical Communication
Network-in-a-BoxAUSTIN, Texas and CUPERTINO, Calif., July 17, 2024 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- GXC, a leading
provider of private cellular network solutions, and Ecrio, the foremost supplier of Mobile Communications and
Messaging for Private LTE/5G Networks, today announced the two companies have won a joint award in the
Catastrophic Communications Challenge (C2C), hosted by the National Security Innovation Network (NSIN) in
collaboration with the Washington Air National Guard's (WA ANG) 194 Communications Squadron. The event is a
prestigious competition designed to discover innovative solutions for emergency communication in disaster
scenarios. With significant investment from the Department of Defense (DoD), the challenge seeks to advance
technologies that enhance emergency communication capabilities for various defense applications.Ecrio and GXC
have formed a strategic relationship to deliver Mission Critical Connectivity and Communication for 5G Network-in-
a-Box (C-NiB) solutions. The collaboration between the two companies leverages Ecrio's expertise in secure critical
communications and GXC's leadership in providing LTE and 5G RAN networks.

Each self-contained C-NiB node integrates Ecrio's iota-e critical communication software with GXC's industry-
leading 5G RAN and Core platforms.Headquartered in Austin, TX, GXC provides innovative private cellular network
solutions through its advanced GXC ONYX™ platform. This turnkey system offers resilient and scalable LTE/5G
coverage using private cellular mesh or star topology backhaul, making it ideal for applications requiring distributed
critical connectivity.Ecrio, based in Cupertino, CA, is a leader in end-to-end communication software, providing a
comprehensive platform for deploying private LTE/5G networks. This includes a suite of standards-compliant
voice/video calling, messaging, and mission-critical Push-to-Talk (MCX). Ecrio's proven track record features
successful deployments across various industry verticals, including mobile carriers, public safety, and defense.The
GXC ONYX™ platform integrates Ecrio's iota-e software to deliver 3GPP and GSMA compliant communication
software in a compact form factor, which is perfectly suited for both near and far edge-based private networks. The
solution supports voice and video communication for first responders and frontline workers as well as worker-to-
machine interactions. It integrates seamlessly with leading AI and ML frameworks, cameras and sensors to deliver
Edge AI workflows for perimeter security and worker safety. With its modular and scalable architecture, iota-e can
be deployed with Native Dialing or as an Over-the-Top Voice/Video Calling and MCPTT solution with a companion
app for ruggedized phones and tablets."We are thrilled to be recognized in this prestigious competition for enabling
edge-based critical communications for 5G Private Cellular Networks," said Michel Gannage, Founder and CEO of
Ecrio. "With GXC's unmatched network-in-a-box and mesh technology, we look forward to versatile and scalable
deployments of our combined solutions.""We are delighted and proud to receive this award," said Hardik Jain, co-

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                    Ecrio and GXC Win Award in NSIN Catastrophic Communications Challenge

founder and CTO of GXC. "Our partnership with Ecrio allows us to offer an out-of-the-box, compact, full-featured
5G voice, video, and data communication solution for specialized deployments in defense, public safety,
manufacturing, logistics and transportation. Our work with Ecrio enables us to deliver a solution that can satisfy the
security and performance needs for these markets.""Congratulations to GXC and Ecrio and their advanced Private
5G Communication Network-in-a-Box solution on winning the NSIN Catastrophic Communications Challenge," said
Tanya Parypa, NSIN Northwest Regional Director. "This life-saving technology assures warfighters have the
communications tools they need to perform in degraded environments."To learn more about the NSIN Catastrophic
Communications Challenge,Click HereAbout GXCFounded in 2016, GXC is an Austin, Texas-based company that
provides groundbreaking private cellular network solutions for enterprises. Through its turnkey proprietary platform,
GXC Onyx, the company delivers comprehensive connectivity both indoors and out, enabling highly secure,
resilient, and scalable coverage that supports critical business operations in manufacturing, logistics, transportation,
agriculture, and other commercial venues. GXC is the only provider to offer private cellular mesh technology,
building this capability based on years of advanced research. The company partners with leading technology
providers and systems integrators to ensure that each system is professionally deployed and meets the
expectations of sophisticated enterprises.About EcrioEcrio is the leading supplier of end-to-end communication
software, essential for deploying 5G/LTE private networks. Ecrio offers a comprehensive suite of standards-
compliant Edge Communication Server and Device Client Software, optimized to run as a Network-in-a-Box, on-
premises, or in Operator MEC, via its FlexEDGE™ architecture. Ecrio's Edge solutions enable two-way interactive
human-to-machine communication for command and control of drones, robots, and cameras in verticals such as
defense, disaster response, and industrials. Ecrio's Device Client Software for phones, tablets, wearables, FWA
gateways, XR, and IoT devices is built on the patented FlexIMS™ Architecture and has been deployed in over 100
million devices. Ecrio's Voice, Video, and Messaging solutions are 3GPP and GSMA compliant, supporting VxLTE,
VoNR, VoWiFi, MCPTT, and RCS. For more information, please visitwww.ecrio.com.FlexIMS™ and FlexEDGE™
are trademarks of Ecrio Inc.Media ContactLina Martin, Ecrio Inc., 1 4089737290, ,www.ecrio.com View original
content:https://www.prweb.com/releases/ecrio-and-gxc-win-award-in-nsin-catastrophic-communications-challenge-
302198437.htmlSOURCE Ecrio Inc.


Load-Date: July 17, 2024


  
