

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 4
                Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on Quantum Technology




 Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on Quantum
                              Technology
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           August 15, 2024 Thursday 5:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1957 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Congressional Research Service issued the following In Focus white paper (No. IF11836) on Aug. 14, 2024, by
Kelley M. Sayler, advanced technology and global security analyst:

***

Defense Primer: Quantum Technology

Quantum technology translates the principles of quantum physics into technological applications. In general,
quantum technology has not yet reached maturity; however, it could hold significant implications for the future of
military sensing, encryption, and communications, as well as for congressional oversight, authorizations, and
appropriations.

Key Concepts in Quantum Technology

Quantum applications rely on a number of key concepts, including superposition, quantum bits (qubits), and
entanglement. Superposition refers to the ability of quantum systems to exist in two or more states simultaneously.
A qubit is a computing unit that leverages the principle of superposition to encode information. (A classical
computer encodes information in bits that can represent binary states of either 0 or 1, whereas a quantum computer
encodes information in qubits, each of which can represent 0, 1, or a combination of 0 and 1 at the same time.
Thus, the power of a quantum computer increases exponentially with the addition of each qubit.)

Entanglement is defined by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) as a property in which "two or more quantum
objects in a system can be intrinsically linked such that measurement of one dictates the possible measurement
outcomes for another, regardless of how far apart the two objects are." Entanglement underpins a number of
potential military applications of quantum technology. Both superposition and entanglement are, however, difficult to
sustain due to the fragility of quantum states, which can be disrupted by minute movements, changes in
temperature, or other environmental factors.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 4
              Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on Quantum Technology

Military Applications of Quantum Technology

The Defense Science Board (DSB), an independent Department of Defense (DOD) board of scientific advisors, has
concluded that three applications of quantum technology hold the most promise for DOD: quantum sensing,
quantum computers, and quantum communications. The DSB concluded that quantum radar, hypothesized to be
capable of identifying the performance characteristics (e.g., radar cross-section, speed) of objects - including low
observable, or stealth, aircraft--"will not provide upgraded capability to DOD."

Quantum Sensing

Quantum sensing uses the principles of quantum physics within a sensor. According to the DSB, this is the most
mature military application of quantum technologies and is currently "poised for mission use." Quantum sensing
could provide a number of enhanced military capabilities. For example, it could provide alternative positioning,
navigation, and timing options that could in theory allow militaries to continue to operate at full performance in GPS-
degraded or GPS-denied environments. In addition, quantum sensors could potentially be used in an intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) role.

Successful development and deployment of such sensors could lead to significant improvements in submarine
detection and, in turn, compromise the survivability of seabased nuclear deterrents. Quantum sensors could also
enable military personnel to detect underground structures or nuclear materials due to their expected "extreme
sensitivity to environmental disturbances." The sensitivity of quantum sensors could similarly potentially enable
militaries to detect electromagnetic emissions, thus enhancing electronic warfare capabilities and potentially
assisting in locating concealed adversary forces.

Quantum Computers

According to NAS, "quantum computers are the only known model for computing that could offer exponential
speedup over today's computers." While quantum computers are in a relatively early stage of development,
advances--many of which are driven by the commercial sector--could hold implications for the future of artificial
intelligence (AI), encryption, and other disciplines.

For example, some analysts have suggested that quantum computers could enable advances in machine learning,
a subfield of AI. Such advances could spur improved pattern recognition and machine-based target identification.
This could in turn enable the development of more accurate lethal autonomous weapon systems, or weapons
capable of selecting and engaging targets without the need for manual human control or remote operation. AI-
enabled quantum computers potentially could be paired with quantum sensors to further enhance military ISR
applications.

In addition, quantum computers could potentially decrypt classified or controlled unclassified information stored on
encrypted media, allowing adversaries to gain access to sensitive information about U.S. military or intelligence
operations. Some analysts note that significant advances in quantum computing would likely be required to break
current encryption methods. Their estimates suggest that a quantum computer with around 20 million qubits would
be required to break current encryption methods; however, the most advanced quantum computers today generally
have no more than 1,088 qubits.

The practical applications of quantum computers will likely be realized only after improvement in error rates and
development of new quantum algorithms, software tools, and hardware. While, as NAS notes, "there is no
guarantee that [these technical challenges] will be overcome," some analysts believe that an initial quantum
computer prototype capable of breaking current encryption methods could be developed in the 2030 to 2040
timeframe. For this reason, NAS concludes that "the development, standardization, and deployment of post-
quantum cryptography is critical for minimizing the chance of a potential security and privacy disaster." (Information
intercepted prior to the deployment of post-quantum cryptography would not be protected.) In May 2022, the Biden
administration released National Security Memorandum on Promoting United States

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 4
              Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on Quantum Technology

Leadership in Quantum Computing While Mitigating Risks to Vulnerable Cryptographic Systems (NSM-10), which
"directs specific actions for agencies to take as the United States begins the multi-year process of migrating
vulnerable computer systems to quantum-resistant cryptography." NSM-10 notes that the Director of the National
Institute of Standards and Technology and the Director of the National Security Agency (NSA) are to develop
technical standards for quantum resistant cryptography. NIST released the first tranche of these standards in
August 2024. NSA has stated that it "expects the transition to [quantum-resistant] algorithms for [national security
systems] to be complete by 2035 in line with NSM-10."

Quantum Communications

Quantum communications--excluding quantum key distribution ([QKD], discussed below)--are in a nascent stage of
development. Quantum communications could theoretically enable the secure networking of quantum military
sensors, computers, and other systems, thus improving performance over that of a single quantum system or
classical communications network. Networking could additionally strengthen the robustness of such systems at
range, thus expanding the potential environments in which they could be deployed (i.e., outside of the laboratory
settings generally required to sustain fragile quantum states). This could significantly expand the military utility of
quantum communications.

Quantum key distribution is a subset of quantum communications that uses the principles of quantum physics to
encrypt information that is then sent over classical networks. QKD enables secure communications that cannot be
covertly intercepted during transmission. (QKD communications can, however, be intercepted at the relay stations
currently required for long-distance transmissions.) China is reportedly investing heavily in QKD and completed
construction of an approximately 1,250 mile Beijing-Shanghai quantum network in 2016. Nonetheless, the DSB
concluded that "QKD has not been implemented with sufficient capability or security to be deployed for DOD
mission use."

Recent Legislative Activity

Congress has passed numerous provisions related to quantum technology. For example, Section 234 of the
FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) (P.L. 115-232), later amended by Section 219 of the FY2024
NDAA (P.L. 118-31), directs the Secretary of Defense - acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for
Research and Engineering - to execute a quantum technology research and development program in coordination
with the private sector and other government agencies.

Furthermore, Section 220 of the FY2020 NDAA (P.L. 11692) requires DOD to develop ethics guidelines for the use
of quantum technologies, as well as plans for supporting the quantum workforce and reducing the cybersecurity
risks associated with quantum technologies. It additionally authorizes the Secretary of each military department to
establish Quantum Information Science (QIS) Research Centers that may "engage with appropriate public and
private sector organizations" to advance quantum research.

To date, the Navy has designated the Naval Research Laboratory as its QIS Research Center, while the Air Force
has designated the Air Force Research Laboratory as a QIS Research Center for both the Air Force and Space
Force. The Army says it does not plan to establish a QIS Research Center at this time.

Section 214 of the FY2021 NDAA (P.L. 116-283) directs the services to compile and annually update a list of
technical challenges that quantum computers could potentially address within the next one to three years. The list
currently includes quantum chemistry, optimization, and machine learning. Section 214 also directs the services to
establish programs with small and medium businesses to provide quantum computing capabilities to government,
industry, and academic researchers working on these challenges. Section 1722 directs DOD to conduct an
assessment of the risks posed by quantum computers.

Finally, Section 105 of the FY2022 NDAA (P.L. 117-81) directs the President to establish - through the National
Science and Technology Council - the Subcommittee on the Economic and Security Implications of Quantum
Information Science, while Section 229 directs the Secretary of Defense to "establish a set of activities to accelerate
the development and deployment of dual-use quantum capabilities." Section 220 of the FY2024 NDAA directs DOD

                                                                                                      Page 4 of 4
              Congressional Research Service Issues In Focus White Paper on Quantum Technology

to establish a public-private talent exchange program for quantum research; Section 231 authorizes a DOD pilot
program for quantum computing.

Potential Questions for Congress

* What funding level does the current maturity of military applications of quantum technology warrant? To what
extent, if at all, should the U.S. government invest in and research technologies that enable quantum military
applications (e.g., materials science, fabrication techniques)?

* To what extent, if at all, can commercial advances in quantum technology be leveraged for military applications?

* How mature are U.S. competitor efforts to develop military applications of quantum technologies? To what extent,
if at all, could such efforts threaten advanced U.S. military capabilities, such as submarines and stealth aircraft?

* What measures are being taken to develop quantum-resistant encryption and to protect data that have been
encrypted using current methods?

* What measures, if any, should the United States take to ensure that the quantum workforce is sufficient to support
U.S. competitiveness in quantum technology?

***

The white paper is posted at: https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF11836

[Category: CRSCRS]

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8775378 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: August 15, 2024


  
