

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
  Hitachi Construction Machinery Drives Digital Transformation by Moving Large- Scale Systems to Oracle Cloud
                                                   Infrastructure




   Hitachi Construction Machinery Drives Digital Transformation by Moving
             Large-Scale Systems to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              July 2, 2024 Tuesday 9:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 832 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: AUSTIN, Texas

Body


Oracle, a developer of hardware and software products, issued the following news release on July 1, 2024:

***

Oracle Cloud VMware Solution and Oracle Exadata Database Service help ensure fast and reliable cloud migration
of mission-critical systems

The company has reduced operating costs by 20 percent while improving performance in other key areas

***

Oracle today announced that Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. has selected Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
(OCI) to migrate its large-scale, mission-critical business systems for accounting, development, production, design,
sales, parts, export, human resources, and services. By selecting Oracle Cloud VMware Solution and Oracle
Exadata Database Service on OCI, the company has achieved a fast and reliable cloud migration with minimal
changes to applications and databases from previous on-premises environments.

Hitachi Construction Machinery develops, manufactures, sells, rents, and services hydraulic excavators, wheel
loaders, road equipment, and mining equipment, with more than 400,000 units of construction equipment in
operation worldwide. As part of its digital transformation effort (DX), it's migrating its large-scale core system to the
public cloud to unify data from mission-critical systems and construction equipment and prepare for future AI
implementation.

Hitachi Construction Machinery selected OCI because it enabled a safe and secure migration strategy without
requiring application changes. Additionally, the company benefits from improved business continuity and a reduced
total cost of ownership (TCO). By moving to the cloud, Hitachi Construction Machinery has quickly and dynamically

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
  Hitachi Construction Machinery Drives Digital Transformation by Moving Large- Scale Systems to Oracle Cloud
                                                   Infrastructure

scaled its resources, increased flexibility as its business grows and changes, and reduced its infrastructure
operating costs by 20 percent. In addition, online transaction processing performance has improved by 50 percent,
and batch processing performance has enhanced by 60 percent on several core business systems.

"OCI is the only public cloud that can securely migrate mission-critical databases running on Oracle Exadata and
VMware virtualization environments since we can migrate quickly without configuration changes and reduce costs.
Other clouds would have increased our costs due to having to rebuild applications," said Noriko Momoki, senior
officer and president, DX Promotion Group, Hitachi Construction Machinery. "The increased performance has
significantly improved business processing time while reducing operational and management tasks, meaning our IT
department can now focus on new projects to strengthen our business competitiveness."

Hitachi Construction Machinery is migrating approximately 500 virtual servers from an on-premises VMware
virtualization environment and 100 databases to Oracle Cloud VMware Solution and Oracle Exadata Database
Service on OCI. The migration will allow the company to benefit from better architecture, enhanced automation,
improved performance, availability, data security configurations, and optimized costs without making application
changes. In addition, Hitachi Construction Machinery is implementing a new disaster recovery environment using
Oracle Cloud Tokyo and Osaka regions to strengthen business continuity.

"Organizations across all industries worldwide have realized that moving to the cloud can help them accelerate
digital transformation," said Ashish Ray, vice president, Mission-Critical Database Technologies, Oracle. "Exadata
Database Service and Oracle Cloud VMware Solution on OCI enable Hitachi Construction Machinery to quickly and
reliably migrate mission-critical systems to the cloud, capture the cloud's economic benefits, and deliver on high-
performance expectations from customers and employees. Both these services extend on-premises environments
with cloud elasticity and leverage existing knowledge, skills, processes, and tooling--and having both applications
and databases on OCI simplifies operations and increases performance."

Hitachi Construction Machinery plans to modernize applications to cloud-native OCI and migrate its remaining
databases from on-premises environments. By consolidating its business data into OCI to develop a DX platform,
the company plans to leverage multicloud and AI capabilities.

***

About Oracle

Oracle offers integrated suites of applications plus secure, autonomous infrastructure in the Oracle Cloud. For more
information about Oracle (NYSE: ORCL), please visit us at www.oracle.com.

***

Trademarks

Oracle, Java, MySQL and NetSuite are registered trademarks of Oracle Corporation. NetSuite was the first cloud
company--ushering in the new era of cloud computing.

***

Original text here: https://www.oracle.com/news/announcement/hitachi-construction-machinery-drives-digital-
transformation-by-moving-large-scale-systems-to-oracle-cloud-infrastructure-2024-07-01/

[Category: BizComputer Technology]

Contact: Ben Wolfson, 510/480-5230, ben.wolfson@oracle.com

Copyright Targeted News Services

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
  Hitachi Construction Machinery Drives Digital Transformation by Moving Large- Scale Systems to Oracle Cloud
                                                   Infrastructure

MSTRUCK-8703828 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 2, 2024


  
