

                                                                                                           Page 1 of 3
                   Switch Up Teaching and Assessment to Help Teachers Combat Chatbot-Cheating




   Switch Up Teaching and Assessment to Help Teachers Combat Chatbot-
                                Cheating
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                             July 4, 2024 Thursday 9:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 840 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: ADELAIDE, Australia

Body


(TNSres) -- The University of South Australia issued the following news release:

It's the chatbot technology that can write an essay in a second, but despite its vast capabilities, generative AI is
creating headaches for education, particularly when it comes to student integrity and cheating.

Now, new research from the University of South Australia, shows that teachers can combat AI by adopting a
transformative approach to teaching and assessments: Design Thinking.

Design Thinking is a human-centric and curiosity-driven methodology that can be easily adapted to the classroom.
It builds student creativity, critical thinking, and collaboration - skills that cannot easily be replicated by AI - while
concurrently enabling teachers to monitor and assess student learning in a formative manner.

Lead researcher and UniSA PhD candidate Maria Vieira, says by adopting a Design Thinking approach, teachers
can address integrity issues posed by generative AI.

"Teachers at all levels of education are challenged by the dilemmas presented by generative AI, with one of the
biggest issues being academic honesty and authenticity," Vieira says.

"Chatbots like ChatGPT, Meta AI or Microsoft Copilot are a great temptation for students, particularly when an
essay can be produced with just a single click. We know that new technologies are not going away, so as teachers,
we need to find ways to promote and assess authentic learning.

"Design Thinking* requires students to work through several phases of learning: empathy, definition, ideation,
prototyping, testing and evaluation, with each step requiring a specific outcome, an opportunity for feedback, and
importantly, a touchpoint for prompt feedback and formative assessment.

                                                                                                            Page 2 of 3
                    Switch Up Teaching and Assessment to Help Teachers Combat Chatbot-Cheating

"Unlike traditional classroom settings where there is often a 'right' answer, Design Thinking addresses problems
without predetermined solutions, challenging students to think more critically and creatively.

"The beauty of Design Thinking is that it allows teachers to assess student progress at any point of the process,
and at either individual or group level, which immediately presents a solution to integrity issues posed by generative
AI."

Design Thinking can lead to a multitude of different creative outputs, including prototypes, mind maps, and
presentations, and enables assessment both at individual level (through evidence of research or self-reflection
pieces) and group levels (based on output produced).

As the phases occur in an iterative loop, students can revisit and review their work, which encourages continuous
improvement, and helps them learn how to provide and receive constructive peer feedback.

"During the Design Thinking process, students have the opportunity to navigate ambiguity, develop empathy,
recognise failure as part of the learning process, and collaborate - all skills that are essential for the 21st century,"
Vieira says.

"This teaching method encourages students to take greater ownership of their learning, allowing teachers to shift
their focus from delivering content, to observing and supporting their students in the classroom, being more
attentive to their development and learning process.

"While Design Thinking may not be the only solution for the future of education, it is undoubtedly a successful
strategy that can be readily adopted across K-12 education systems to address some of the most pressing
challenges associated with AI and global digitalisation."

To learn more about Design Thinking, teachers can access a free online course presented by Maria Vieira and
offered through the Education Futures Academy.

***

Notes to editors:

*An example of Design Thinking for the problem: "How might we use satellite technologies to minimize the negative
impact of bushfires in South Australia?"

1. Empathise: Students watch videos and interview industry partners to better understand how existing technologies
work and to put themselves in the shoes of someone experiencing a bushfire.

2. Define: They create a mind map with several keywords related to this problem and frame a second, specific
question. For example, they might decide whether to focus on pre-disaster, during-disaster, or post-disaster, or
even on a specific audience (such as elderly people, or farmers).

3. Ideate: With their specific question in mind, they develop ideas using divergent and convergent thinking.

4. Prototype: They build visual representation that best explain their solutions (sketches, models, etc).

5. Test: They build a narrative to their solution, presenting their ideas to peers and industry partners and receive
feedback.

6. Evaluate: They use critical thinking to analyse which feedback should be incorporated to improve their solutions
and how.

***

Original text here: https://www.unisa.edu.au/media-centre/Releases/2024/switch-up-teaching-and-assessment-to-
help-teachers--combat-chatbot-cheating/

                                                                                             Page 3 of 3
                Switch Up Teaching and Assessment to Help Teachers Combat Chatbot-Cheating

Contact: Annabel Mansfield, +61 479 182 489, Annabel.Mansfield@unisa.edu.au; Maria Vieira, Researcher,
Maria.Vieira@unisa.edu.au

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8707966 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: July 4, 2024


  
