

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 3
                    ACEP24: World's Largest Emergency Medicine Conference Heads to Las Vegas




   ACEP24: World's Largest Emergency Medicine Conference Heads to Las
                                 Vegas
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           August 31, 2024 Saturday 8:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 541 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: DALLAS, Texas

Body


The American College of Emergency Physicians issued the following news release:

Emergency physicians and leaders throughout emergency medicine will come together during ACEP24, the world's
largest emergency medicine conference, presented by the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP)
from September 29-October 2 in Las Vegas.

Attendees will enjoy unrivaled networking opportunities, best-in-class education, leading research presentations,
and robust discussions about the future of emergency medicine. Members of the media are encouraged to register
and attend the conference for free.

Media onsite can attend public presentations and audit an extensive roster of courses taught by emergency
physician experts on timely topics including boarding and crowding, opioids and pain management, disaster
medicine, heart emergencies, pediatric and geriatric care, infectious disease, and more. Course times and
availability are subject to change.

Registered media and attendees also gain free access to the Research Forum. This year, the Research Forum will
be centered within the exhibit hall and feature more than 350 abstracts and 270 posters from leading researchers
across the globe. The abstracts will be featured in a special supplement to Annals of Emergency Medicine and will
be available on request.

Interviews are available with ACEP leaders, physician faculty, speakers, and research authors.

***

ACEP24 highlights: (all times PDT)

Opening General Session

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 3
                 ACEP24: World's Largest Emergency Medicine Conference Heads to Las Vegas

Future of Work in Emergency Medicine

Heather E. McGowan | September 29 | 9:00 a.m.

The last few years have forever changed the practice of emergency medicine. World renowned future-of-work
strategist Heather E. McGowan helps leaders prepare their teams and organizations for the post-pandemic world of
work.

***

ACEP23 Featured Lectures

Is AI Going to Take My Job? (Nancy J. Auer Lecture)

Christian Rose, MD | September 29 | 1:45 p.m.

Emergency Care Research and Health Policy: Clinical Innovation and Telehealth (Brooks F. Bock Lecture and
Abstract Session)

Nicholas M. Mohr, MD, MS, FACEP | September 30 | 10: 00 a.m.

(Not) Up Next: Waiting Room Medicine (James D. Mills Memorial Lecture)

Diana Nordlund, DO, JD, FACEP | September 30 | 12:30 p.m.

Strike While the Iron Is Hot: How To Expand Your Independent Group (Colin C. Rorrie, Jr. Lecture)

Michael A. Granovsky, MD, FACEP, Thom A. Mayer, MD, FACEP | October 1 | 10:00 am

***

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: Where We Are, Where We Are Going, and Best Practices To Get There (Leon L.
Haley, Jr. Memorial Lecture)

Italo Milton Brown, MD | October 1 | 3:30 p.m.

For more information about ACEP24, visit www.acep.org/ACEP24.

***

The American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP) is the national medical society representing emergency
medicine. Through continuing education, research, public education, and advocacy, ACEP advances emergency
care on behalf of its 40,000 emergency physician members, and the more than 150 million people they treat on an
annual basis.

***

Original text here: https://www.emergencyphysicians.org/press-releases/2024/acep24-worlds-largest-emergency-
medicine-conference-heads-to-las-vegas

[Category: Medical]

Contact: Steve Arnoff, sarnoff@acep.org

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8797137 T40-MgEditor

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
                    ACEP24: World's Largest Emergency Medicine Conference Heads to Las Vegas


Load-Date: August 31, 2024


  
