

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
        KLDiscovery Earns Multiple Rankings in Chambers and Partners' 2024 NewLaw Guide The Company is
                      pleased to be recognized by Chambers for the second consecutive y....




   KLDiscovery Earns Multiple Rankings in Chambers and Partners' 2024
 NewLaw Guide; The Company is pleased to be recognized by Chambers for
                     the second consecutive year.
                                                   Business Wire
                                       June 18, 2024 Tuesday 2:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 705 words
Dateline: EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn.

Body


KLDiscovery Inc. ("KLDiscovery" or the "Company"), a leading global provider of eDiscovery, information
governance, data recovery, and contract lifecycle management (CLM) solutions, is proud to be recognized for the
second consecutive year by Chambers and Partners, a renowned independent research company in the legal
industry. KLDiscovery is ranked in Chambers' Global-wide 2024 NewLaw Guide in Band 1 for LawTech Consulting
and Band 3 for Contract Lifecycle Management (CLM). NewLaw is Chambers' new guide to legal tech, outsourcing,
and alternative legal service providers (ALSP). The new guide replaces Chambers' old LawTech and ALSP guides
which ranked KLDiscovery in 2023.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.             View        the      full     release       here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240618174009/en/

Chambers' NewLaw Guide ranks KLDiscovery. (Photo: Business Wire)

Chambers and Partners determine rankings by conducting independent research and gathering feedback from
clients and market leaders. They evaluate factors such as technical legal expertise and the quality of client service.
Highlights of KLDiscovery client testimonials to Chambers include:
    •     "KLDiscovery are capable of reviewing highly customised agreements with complex negotiated language
          for simplified tracking. They always respond in a timely manner."
    •     "We were well supported by KLDiscovery and had good profiles working on our project. We're super happy
          with the delivery. They were not only on time but even early with deadlines."

This prestigious recognition highlights KLDiscovery's exceptional capabilities as a provider of comprehensive
contract management solutions and legal technology consulting and implementation services. KLDiscovery excels
in CLM implementation, including process mapping and workflow development, all designed to help clients
streamline their operations. These accolades further solidify KLDiscovery's position as a leader in the managed
legal services sector.

                                                                                             Page 2 of 2
      KLDiscovery Earns Multiple Rankings in Chambers and Partners' 2024 NewLaw Guide The Company is
                    pleased to be recognized by Chambers for the second consecutive y....

"KLDiscovery's top rankings are a testament to our technical expertise, commitment to client service, and innovative
approach to legal solutions," said Chris Weiler, CEO of KLDiscovery. "We are proud to be recognized in Chambers
and Partners' esteemed guides, underscoring our capability to meet the evolving needs of our clients with cutting-
edge legal software and services."

"We're thrilled to be featured by Chambers and Partners for the second consecutive year. A special thanks to our
partners and clients whose collaboration has been instrumental," said Aditya Mirza, Managing Director of
KLDiscovery India. "Being recognized inspires us to expand the implementation of our CLM, Legal AI, and
consulting solutions."

For more information, visit Chambers' website . To learn more about KLDiscovery and its leading CLM solutions,
explore the Company's website .

About KLDiscovery

KLDiscovery provides technology-enabled services and software to help law firms, corporations, and government
agencies solve complex data challenges. With offices in 26 locations across 17 countries, KLDiscovery is a global
leader in delivering best-in-class data management, information governance, and eDiscovery solutions to support
the litigation, regulatory compliance, and internal investigation needs of clients. Serving organizations for over 30
years, KLDiscovery offers data collection and forensic investigation, early case assessment, data processing,
application software and data hosting for web-based document reviews, and managed document review services.
In addition, through its global Ontrack data management business, KLDiscovery delivers world-class data recovery,
disaster recovery, email extraction and restoration, data destruction, and tape management. KLDiscovery has
been recognized as one of the fastest growing companies in North America by both Inc. Magazine (Inc. 5000) and
Deloitte (Deloitte's Technology Fast 500), and CEO Chris Weiler was a 2014 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the
Year(TM). Additionally, KLDiscovery is a Relativity Certified Partner and maintains ISO/IEC 27001 Certified data
centers around the world. Visit www.kldiscovery.com to learn more.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240618174009/en/


CONTACT: Danny Zambito
888.811.3789

danny.zambito@kldiscovery.com


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


Chambers' NewLaw Guide ranks KLDiscovery. (Photo: Business Wire)


Load-Date: June 18, 2024


  
