

                                                                                             Page 1 of 3
         HYCU® Named a Finalist in CRN’s 2024 Tech Innovator Awards HYCU R-Cloud Continues to Drive
                 Recognition for Its Innovative Approach to Modern And SaaS Data Prote....




 HYCU® Named a Finalist in CRN’s 2024 Tech Innovator Awards; HYCU R-
Cloud Continues to Drive Recognition for Its Innovative Approach to Modern
                        And SaaS Data Protection
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                               July 15, 2024 Monday 7:01 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT; PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT; PRESS RELEASES;
CONTESTS/AWARDS
Length: 944 words

Body

Boston, Massachusetts, July 15, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- HYCU, Inc., a leader for modern data protection
for on-prem, cloud services and SaaS, and one of the fastest growing companies in the industry, announced today
that CRN®, a brand of The Channel Company, has named HYCU R-Cloud as a finalist for the 2024 CRN Tech
Innovator Awards. HYCU is being recognized for R-Cloud in the Data Protection, Management, and Resiliency
category.

This annual award showcases innovative vendors in the IT channel across 36 distinct technology categories
ranging from cloud to storage to networking to security. The 2024 winners were selected by a panel of CRN editors
who reviewed hundreds of vendor entries and solution provider testimonials. Standout innovators were selected as
finalists based on a number of criteria, including key capabilities, uniqueness, technological ingenuity, and ability to
address customer and partner needs.

HYCU R-Cloud, is a single, integrated SaaS platform that offers enterprise class automated backup, granular
recovery, data migration, and disaster recovery across on-premises, multi-cloud platforms, cloud services, and
SaaS applications. Delivered as a true cloud-native SaaS solution, HYCU R-Cloud is built on an agentless
architecture, eliminating unnecessary additional hardware or software. A key component of R-Cloud is HYCU R-
Graph that provides data estate discovery and visualization, supporting more than 70 data sources. In January
2024, HYCU made HYCU R-Cloud easy to extend to new data sources to protect at scale and to help cover new
data sources efficiently and easily through the HYCU Generative AI Initiative. This Initiative helped to seamlessly
integrate generative AI technology, including Anthropics' AI assistant Claude with R-Cloud, redefining the
development process of data protection integrations and creating an easy-to-use way to create SaaS integrations.

                                                                                            Page 2 of 3
        HYCU® Named a Finalist in CRN’s 2024 Tech Innovator Awards HYCU R-Cloud Continues to Drive
                Recognition for Its Innovative Approach to Modern And SaaS Data Prote....

This innovation helps partners to develop and reduce the time to build new data protection modules from weeks to
hours. This is a stark contrast in the time it may take legacy data protection providers to build and add new
protection capabilities to data sources.

“We are pleased to recognize the commitment to continuous innovation among this year’s CRN Tech Innovator
Award finalists. Each of these vendors delivers cutting-edge technology that meets evolving customer needs and
creates new opportunities for solution providers and the broader IT channel ecosystem,” said Jennifer Follett, VP,
U.S. Content, and Executive Editor, CRN, The Channel company. “We look forward to future innovations from the
recipients and to seeing how their solution provider partners use these offerings as the foundation of new, inventive
solutions.”

“As we know, the proliferation of SaaS application use and the need for modern data protection to make critical
SaaS application data available and recoverable, has never been higher,” said Simon Taylor, Founder and CEO,
HYCU. “We developed HYCU R-Cloud to address the data protection challenges of existing on-premises
infrastructure to the emerging needs of Cloud Services and Platforms and SaaS application data. None of what we
have accomplished would have been possible without a team of engineers that are immersed in multi-platform,
database, and SaaS application backup, restoration, and availability. Thank you to CRN’s editors for the selection,
we are excited to see R-Cloud gain the recognition it so thoroughly deserves.”

The Tech Innovator Awards Finalists can be viewed online at crn.com/techinnovators. Winners will be announced
on crn.com on August 7, 2024 and will be featured in the August issue of CRN.

For more information on HYCU, visit:www.hycu.com, follow us on X (formerly Twitter), connect with us on LinkedIn,
Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube.

###About HYCU HYCU is the fastest-growing leader in the multi-cloud and SaaS data protection as a service
industry. By bringing true SaaS-based data backup and recovery to on-premises, cloud-native and SaaS
environments, the company provides unparalleled data protection, migration, disaster recovery, and ransomware
protection to thousands of companies worldwide. As an award-winning and recognized visionary in the industry,
HYCU solutions eliminate complexity, risk, and the high cost of legacy-based solutions, providing data protection
simplicity to make the world safer. With an industry leading NPS score of 91, customers experience frictionless,
cost-effective data protection, anywhere, everywhere. HYCU has raised $140M in VC funding to date and is based
in Boston, Mass. Learn more at www.hycu.com.

About The Channel Company The Channel Company enables breakthrough IT channel performance with our
dominant media, engaging events, expert consulting and education, and innovative marketing services and
platforms. As the channel catalyst, we connect and empower technology suppliers, solution providers, and end
users. Backed by more than 40 years of unequalled channel experience, we draw from our deep knowledge to
envision innovative new solutions for ever-evolving challenges in the technology marketplace.
thechannelcompany.com

Follow The Channel Company: LinkedIn, Facebook, and X

© 2024 The Channel Company, Inc. The Channel Company logo is a registered trademark of The Channel
Company, Inc. All other trademarks and trade names are the properties of their respective owners. All rights
reserved.

   Attachment


    •   HYCU Named a Finalist in CRN’s 2024 Tech Innovator Awards
Don Jennings HYCU, Inc. 617-791-1710         don.jennings@hycu.com        Kristin   DaSilva   The   Channel   Company
kdasilva@thechannelcompany.com

                                                                                           Page 3 of 3
       HYCU® Named a Finalist in CRN’s 2024 Tech Innovator Awards HYCU R-Cloud Continues to Drive
               Recognition for Its Innovative Approach to Modern And SaaS Data Prote....


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
