

                                                                                               Page 1 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn




      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets
                        Institute Executive Director Lynn
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            June 18, 2024 Tuesday 8:50 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 7064 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Competition Policy, Antitrust, and Consumer Rights released the following
testimony by Open Markets Institute Executive Director Barry C. Lynn from a June 5, 2024, hearing entitled
"Strengthening U.S. Economic Leadership: The Role of Competition in Enhancing Economic Resiliency":

***

INTRODUCTION:

Extreme concentration of industrial and computing capacity poses a wide variety of grave threats to the United
States and the American people. These include:

* Cascading catastrophic collapse of essential production and distribution systems.

* Sudden catastrophic failure of vital communications and information systems.

* Political coercion of the United States by strategic rivals able to threaten the cutoff of vital goods and services.

* Persistent systemic inflation that harms the economic wellbeing of the American people.

* Long-term systemic shortages of vital goods, including drugs.

* Inability to produce weapons, munitions, and launch vehicles at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner.

* Unsafe products and services, as we have seen with airliners, baby formula, and packaged food.

* The slowing or even paralysis of technological innovation.

                                                                                               Page 2 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

I know this issue well. I first began to study the structure of supply chains, as a business journalist, in 1994. I first
focused on the dangers posed by extreme chokepointing of capacity in 1999 and published a mainstream article on
the problem in 2002. A decade later In 2009, I began to study the structure, behavior, and systemic effects of
dominant online platforms.

The concentration we see today - in terms both of degree and character - is unprecedented in history. From 1776 to
1981, U.S. policy aimed to protect the liberty of the individual, democratic institutions, the security and
independence of the nation, and technological advance. Americans did so by setting bright-line rules that limited
concentrations of capacity and control and strictly ensured the neutrality of powerful sellers of services and
industrial goods. One result of this policy was a wide distribution of capacity that ensured the physical resiliency of
key systems.

But in the 1980s and 1990s, both Democratic and Republican officials embraced an overtly promonopoly ideology.
They said concentration of control and capacity was more "efficient." They imposed this vision on antitrust, trade,
banking, defense, and communications.

Overall, the results have proven disastrous for liberty, democracy, innovation, and the prosperity of the American
people. Specific to today's hearing, these policies also destroyed the resiliency and stability of many vital systems,
in ways that today expose the American people to existential economic and political threats.

The good news is that the Administration and Congress have taken dramatic steps to address the crisis. This
includes President Biden's restoration of America's traditional competition policies, as well as his executive order in
July 2021 that every department and agency target industrial and digital chokepoints. It includes Congress's brave
and visionary votes to use public funds to promote private capitalistic competition in the semiconductor, automobile,
and nextgeneration energy industries. And it includes the administration's far-reaching effort to use trade policy to
protect the skills and wellbeing of America's working people while also bringing the world's democracies into closer
cooperation to fight the industrial and security threats posed by Russia and China.

But the administration and Congress must do much more, and swiftly. The United States still lacks any real plan to
break dangerous chokepoints in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, in data storage and computing
capacities, in electronics components and materials, in the building of ships and aircraft, and many other key
sectors.

To this end, the Open Market Institute recommends the following immediate actions: - Establish a hierarchy of
threats, to strategically guide action and investment.

* Continue to use public investment to address the most immediate threats.

* Work with G7 allies and other close industrial partners to fully map both threats and strengths.

* Ensure the US and all our NATO allies agree on how to address China's chokepoint power. This means dealing
with Germany's reckless policies.

* Target concentrations of capacity and control in Cloud storage, computing services, and AI, including by
abandoning falsifying policy frameworks such as "trade in data."

One of the most important actions Congress can take today is to require the antitrust agencies to acknowledge the
role that competition law and enforcement play in engineering how complex systems are physically structured. And
consequently, to finish the job of establishing true bright-line rules designed to all but automatically prevent
dangerous concentrations of industrial and computing capacity, thereby ensuring the resiliency and stability of all
essential production and communications systems.

CONTENTS:

I) BUILT FOR RESILIENCE - How America's Traditional Antimonopoly Policies Ensured the Safety and Stability of
Domestic and International Industrial Structures.

                                                                                               Page 3 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

II) BUILT TO BREAK - How Pro-Monopoly Thinking Destroyed the Resiliency of Vital Systems and Undermined
American Security.

III) TOWARDS A NEW RESILIENCY - The U.S. and Allies Waken to the Crisis.

IV) FINISHING THE JOB - The Next Stage in Rebuilding a Resilient System.

V) APPENDIXES

Appendix #1 - How Concentration Threatens Supply Chain Resiliency (Slide)

Appendix #2 - Principles to Guide Efforts to Restore Industrial System Resiliency Appendix #3 - Additional Reading
- Books, Articles, Speeches

Appendix #4 - A Partial List of Events that Triggered Industrial Shutdowns

655 15th St., NW, Washington, DC 20005 | info@openmarketsinstitute.org 5

I) BUILT FOR RESILIENCE - How America's Traditional Antimonopoly Policies

Ensured the Safety and Stability of Domestic and International Industrial Structures.

The first step in understanding the nature and source of today's supply chain crises is to recognize that the
structures of the production systems on which America relies today differ radically from those that served our nation
in the past.

From the Founding of the nation right until the last years of the 20th century, most production of products and
components was widely distributed in multiple locations around the world.

First, production was compartmentalized within the borders of the nation-state. In the case of products such as
automobiles, electronics, metals, and chemicals, for instance, every industrial nation largely produced what it
consumed, and then competed with other industrial nations to sell finished goods to smaller nations, and to less
industrialized nations.

Second, within most industrialized nations, manufacture of products such as automobiles, electronics, metals, and
chemicals was separated into multiple vertically integrated corporations. In the United States, for instance,
antimonopoly practice aimed to ensure that at least four corporations competed to make any particular product.
Much the same was true of Japan and of Europe as a whole.

Within corporations, production was then often further compartmentalized by the distribution of the capacity to
manufacture of key components and end products among two or more different factories.

As a result, for most of the 20th century, when something went wrong in one factory or one industrial region
somewhere in the world, the overall effects of the disruption were limited - at most - to only one company within one
country. As important, the wide distribution of capacity limited the ability of any one nation to coerce another nation
through threats to cut off the supply of any vital good. Further, the widespread distribution of manufacturing capacity
and skills that existed then meant that when one company experienced a major supply disruption, it could turn to its
competitors for help in keeping its own assembly lines moving and in repairing whatever damage it had suffered.

This structure was no accident. On the contrary it was the direct result of highly intentional and public political
decisions that date back to the founding of the United States.

Three decisions were key to establishing the foundations of the industrial system that served Americans so well
over the first 200 years of our nation's history.

First was never to depend on any single foreign nation for all or even most of any good essential to the security of
the United States or of individual Americans. We see this in the justifications for rebellion against the British East

                                                                                               Page 4 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

India Corporation's trading monopoly, a main goal of the Declaration of Independence. We see these same ideas
made even more clear in the War of 1812, when the American people fought a second war to ensure their complete
independence from the British imperial trading system of the 19th century.

Second was never to accept any similar concentration of control over vital production within the U.S. domestic
economy. Here again, a prime goal was to ensure the security of the nation by breaking all dangerous chokepoints
on vital industrial and transportation capacities. But we also see a second equally important goal - which is the
protection of democracy and individual liberty from all concentrations of industrial and economic power and control.

Third was to impose non-discrimination rules on any corporation that succeeded in capturing a dominant position
over the provision of a vital product, material, or service. Americans applied such rules to all essential
communications platforms and networks, to all essential transportation systems including those that served only
particular localities and regions, and to both large manufacturers and the retailers and trading companies that
distributed and sold their products.

Domestically, to achieve these aims, the American people established the world's first modern, integrated
antimonopoly regime to structure markets, control the power of corporations, maintain a universal distribution of
property and education, and ensure that competition within society was not destructive in nature but helped us to
achieve fundamental social, political, and economic goals. We see this dramatically in the design of the Constitution
itself, the greatest antimonopoly document in human history. We also see this clearly in the extremely close public
control 19th century America held over all corporations and all financial and banking activities within the borders of
our nation.

Although this system of antimonopoly control broke down late in the 19th century, by early in the 20th century, the
American people were well on their way to updating and adapting their traditional principles and goals for the
industrial age. The administrations of Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt, and Dwight Eisenhower played
especially important roles in updating U.S. antimonopoly law and enforcement, as did key leaders from both parties
in Congress.

Through the heart of the 20th century, the American people fully understood that our antimonopoly political and
legal regime was comprised of far more than our antitrust laws. Just as was true in the first century of the Republic,
the American people understood that regulation of trade, communications, corporate governance, patent rights,
banking and finance, commodities markets, and the production and distribution of energy must all be designed to
reinforce one another in ways that empower us to achieve our aims. Practically this meant establishing various
forms of antimonopoly regulatory and enforcement authority in almost every department and agency of government
- including the departments of the Treasury, Transportation, and Agriculture, and the Federal Reserve.

Of great importance as well, the American people established clear and simple "bright-line" rules to govern the
structure of markets and the structure and behavior of all corporations. A prime goal in doing so was to ensure that
no enterprise or financial institution was ever "too big to fail" and that every entrepreneur enjoyed full freedom to fail
in their efforts, without posing any sort of threat to any larger system.

One result of this approach to structuring markets and corporations was a great degree of competition over pricing
and the quality of products and services, which helped both to drive down costs and to drive technological
innovation forward. A second result was a natural robustness and resiliency within all the industrial, financial,
transportation, and energy systems structured along these lines.

This robustness and resiliency were not simply a happy byproduct of some abstract belief in the value of
competition. On the contrary, just as was true in the founding era of the nation, this industrial robustness and
resiliency was very much an intended outcome of how Congress and the Executive designed these systems in the
20th century. In part, this is because a key lesson that emerged from both world wars was the imperative need to
ensure that no foreign or private power ever held chokepoint control over any essential industrial, transportation, or
communications system.

                                                                                               Page 5 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

Indeed, the United States government during these years developed a keen understanding of how to exploit any
such chokepoints in enemy nations. U.S. strategic bombing doctrine in the Second World War, for instance,
focused on identifying and destroying such chokepoints to paralyze the ability of enemy nations to build and deploy
weapons. Perhaps the most famous example was the bombing raids on Germany's ball-bearing industry, highly
concentrated in a single facility in the city of Schweinfort.

During the Cold War, the threat of nuclear conflict strongly reinforced the imperative to ensure that all of our
essential industrial, financial, and communications systems were structured in ways that distributed risk widely and
safely. The Pentagon, for instance, in the 1950s played a major role in forcing defense and electronics corporations
to distribute their industrial capacities away from traditional industrial zones in the Northeast and Midwest, into
southern and western states beyond the range of Soviet bombers.

Similarly, the Pentagon played a key role in applying such thinking to communications systems, in the original
conception and design of the internet. The Pentagon aimed to ensure that the system was engineered to route
information around any disruption. This resulted in design rules that ensured there were no physical or ownership
chokepoints to exploit.

The U.S. government after the Second World War also worked to break dangerous concentrations of industrial
capacity and control within the borders of former adversaries. For instance, immediately after Germany's surrender
in May 1945, President Harry Truman ordered the U.S. military to "effect a dispersion of ownership and control of
German industry." The U.S. government also used the August 1945 Potsdam agreement with the Soviet Union and
Britain to demand the elimination of all "cartels, syndicates, trusts and other monopolistic arrangements" in
Germany. The Truman Administration also imposed a similar set of orders in occupied Japan.

The U.S. government also strove to ensure that the rules of international trading systems were designed to prevent
a re-concentration of these capacities. For instance, the Truman Administration used the Marshall Plan to support
creation of the European Coal and Steel agreement, which brought key European industries under the joint control
of France, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy and others. The Coal and Steel agreement also established Europe's
first common antitrust regime, designed to prevent the concentration of any crossborder private control over these
vital industries. Ultimately, the agreement served as the foundation for today's European Union. It also provided a
model for the liberal international trading system established by the United States and its allies in the 1950s and
1960s to the democratic peoples of the world - as well as private executives and investors - with a simple set of
rules to guide international economic cooperation.

II) BUILT TO BREAK - How Pro-Monopoly Thinking Destroyed the Resiliency of Vital Systems and Undermined
American Security.

When the Reagan administration began to overthrow America's 200-year-old antimonopoly regime in the early
1980s, it is unlikely that any officials involved in the effort imagined that one result would be to severely compromise
America's national security by creating dangerous chokepoints, including within the borders of foreign adversaries.

On the contrary, the Reagan Administration continued to use blunt trade power to block a mid1980s effort by the
Japanese government - in tandem with Japanese electronics manufacturers - to monopolize control over the
production of the hardware in personal computers. This included imposing tariffs and import quotas, subsidizing
next-generation technologies in the United States, and pressuring U.S. importers to diversify their sourcing of
components by buying from non-Japanese manufacturers in South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, and Europe.

Unfortunately, the Reagan administration's success in imposing an anti-democratic and promonopoly competition
regime to promote the concentration of power and control in the hands of the few marked the beginning of the
larger political and policy revolution that ultimately destroyed key aspects of America's traditional industrial and
economic security.

Over the course of the 1980s and 1990s, the Reagan, Bush, Clinton, and Bush administrations radically altered
every key component of America's traditional competition regime to favor consolidation of wealth, power, and

                                                                                               Page 6 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

control in the hands of the few. In doing so, they cleared the way for the radical chokepointing of industrial capacity
and control that today so threatens our security - as a nation and as individuals.

Six radical changes in U.S. regulation of industrial competition stand out:

1) The 1981 adoption of the "consumer welfare" efficiency test for antitrust enforcement. This changed the goal of
competition law and enforcement from protecting the brightline rules established by Congress to protect liberty and
democracy to instead promoting "productive efficiency" based on the theory this would drive down prices. One
immediate result was concentration of key domestic capacity and control into duopoly and sometimes straight
monopoly structures. A second result was to begin to drive extreme international concentration of certain capacities,
as demonstrated by GE's sale of the U.S. television industry to France's Thompson electronics.

2) The abandonment of the simple "Rule of Four" approach to regulating industrial concentration that guided U.S.
antimonopoly enforcement practice for most of the 20th century, in favor of a practice of using simple economic
models to measure the relative efficiency of different levels of concentrated power. One result was to eliminate the
engineering-based premises that underlay America's traditional competition and trade regimes, in ways that
ultimately helped to blind enforcers, executives, and investors to the dangers posed by concentration of capacity
and hence risk.

3) The 1994 signing of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). This agreement
- especially as put into effect through the World Trade Organization beginning in 1995 - cleared the way for nations
and corporations to use mercantilist means to concentrate capacity and control over key links in international
production systems within their own borders.

4) The abandonment of America's traditional practice of imposing non-discrimination rules on the corporations that
control essential communications, transportation, production, and distribution capacities and infrastructures.

5) The embrace of "shareholder" control over America's industrial corporations, through such actions as the Clinton
Administration's embrace of replacing executive salaries with stock options.

6) The concentration of power in ever fewer and bigger private equity funds such as Blackstone Group, through
such actions as the 1996 National Securities Markets Improvement Act, which eliminated limits on how much
money any one hedge fund could pool from institutional investors.

These and other changes in competition policy cleared the way for the most powerful actors in our political
economy to concentrate control over key industrial capacities, and then to stripmine those assets by outsourcing
that capacity, offshoring that capacity, and in some cases simply liquidating that capacity. Worse, these same
changes simultaneously eliminated much of our common social capacity to identify and understand the risks posed
by such extreme concentration of capacity and control. They did so in part by fundamentally altering the nature of
ownership and control through the de facto pooling of production capacities that previously had been highly
compartmentalized, and hence the socialization of the resulting risk itself.

None of these threats and harms should have come as a surprise. I myself wrote extensively of the dangers posed
to the American people's ability to design and produce airliners, in a discussion of the effects of Boeing's new
monopsony power over suppliers in in my 2005 book End of the Line: The Rise and Coming Fall of the Global
Corporation. Then in January 2010 I provided a broader and more fully integrated critique of this same
phenomenon, in my book Cornered: The New Monopoly Capitalism and the Economics of Destruction.

The first proof that the new structure of industrial production had become physically unsafe came on September 21,
1999, when a 7.5-magnitude earthquake struck Taiwan. Within days, computer assembly plants around the world,
including in California and Texas, began to shut down. In the weeks to come, Americans learned that a corporation
named Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, backed directly by the Taiwanese government, had
concentrated almost all the global capacity to produce certain forms of semiconductors in a few foundries located in
the city of Hsinchu.

                                                                                               Page 7 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

The 1999 earthquake, in other words, proved that the compartmentalization of production that had protected the
American people from the collapse of industrial capacities had begun to break down in fundamentally important
ways. Rather than dampen the effects of a localized shock such as an earthquake, the structure of the new system
built by the monopolists served both to transmit and amplify the shock.

As Appendix #2 shows, we have had many other warnings in the years since, due to the fact that U.S.
antimonopoly and trade regulators - viewing the world through the pro-monopoly framework introduced in the 1980s
and 1990s - allowed a few corporations to place many or all keystone capacities in a single geographic location,
sometimes a single facility. This is true both of industrial components such as chemicals, materials, electronics
components, and certain assembly operations. It is also increasingly true of the data storage and computing
capacities on which the modern world depends.

As a result, we now live in a world where even relative minor everyday disruptions such as a fire or earthquake can
trigger a regional or even global collapse of industrial, financial, and communications systems. Increasingly, this is
true even when the disruptions affect the production only of a single product. Consider, for instance, the 2022 crash
of baby formula production, or the recent collapse of the systems we rely on for medical masks, testing chemicals,
and the iodine solutions required for CT scanners and fluoroscopes.1 In other instances, such as with
semiconductors and container shipping, the disruptions can trigger cascading effects through multiple industries at
the same time.

More terrifying yet, it is not at all hard to image events - such as disruptions to normal trading between China and
the United States, or simply between China and Taiwan, that would result in a sudden widescale cascading
collapse of most of our key industrial and financial systems.

Such a disruption does not require China to launch an invasion of Taiwan or even to impose a blockade. China
needs simply shut its own borders to disrupt the supply of essential goods and services in almost every nation of
the world, including the United States and our closest allies.

Two decades ago, advocates for the unfettered "globalization" of such industrial capacities argued that the resulting
system of extreme interdependence would lessen the likelihood of conflict. Unfortunately, as Vladimir Putin's
exploitation of Germany's dependency on Russia for its supply of natural gas and petroleum makes clear,
asymmetrical interdependence can actually increase the likelihood of adventurism and even war, by tempting one
party to exploit another's dependence to achieve some economic and/or political aim.

Finally, the U.S. Department of Defense in recent years has recognized that concentration of industrial capacity and
control poses a number of threats to the industrial systems we rely on for production of weapons and other defense-
related materials. In a series of reports, the Pentagon "cites dozens of examples in which the vitality and resiliency
of the U.S. industrial base" has been "acutely affected" by "extreme consolidation of supply chains in areas like
aircraft, ground vehicles, machine tools, missiles, and printed circuit boards, and the risk of dependence on sole
source vendors in many others."2

As the Pentagon put it in one report, "the number of cases, typically three to seven levels from the top of the supply
chain, where there is just one--often fragile--supplier is staggering." This represents a significant deterioration from
just a decade ago when three to five suppliers existed for the same component, let alone several decades ago,
when the U.S. military generally enjoyed dozens of suppliers for each such item.

III) TOWARDS A NEW RESILIENCY - The U.S. and Allies Waken to the Crisis.

Since President Biden took office in January 2021, his administration, the U.S. Congress, and key U.S. allies have
taken a series of unprecedented actions both to better understand the magnitude and nature of these threats and to
directly address them, sometimes with dramatic success. These include:

1) A Broad Reassessment of Goals, Philosophy, and Means. In his first year in office, President Biden ordered his
administration to establish new overarching goals for political economic regulation, most notably including the
resiliency and stability of complex domestic and international industrial systems. The President in July 2021 also

                                                                                               Page 8 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

condemned the pro-monopoly competition policy philosophy introduced by presidents Reagan and Clinton in the
strongest of terms, in a wide-ranging Executive Order on Competition. Finally, the President also instructed his
administration to use every department and agency of government to achieve these ends, in what has been termed
a "Whole of Government" approach to battling the systemic, economic, and political threats posed by concentration
of capacity and control.

2) Investment in New Capacity. The Biden Administration and Congress have supported this effort in sometimes
spectacular fashion. This includes by passing the CHIPS and Science Act and the Inflation Reduction Act, which
have made hundreds of billions of dollars available to support the building of new industrial capacities in the United
States, in ways that directly target some of the most dangerous industrial chokepoints threatening American
security and prosperity. Properly understood, CHIPS and IRA are two of the most important antimonopoly actions
by the U.S. Congress in history. They demonstrate that, as Brian Deese, former director of the National Economic
Council, put it in 2022, the U.S. government has succeeded in establishing a "modern American industrial strategy"
designed to tackle some of the most dangers concentrations of capacity and power.3

3) A New Vision for International Trade and Production. The Biden Administration has also sketched out the most
far-reaching and strategic rethinking of trade policy since the Truman Administration at the end of the Second World
War. The vision goes far beyond the simple anti-internationalism of the previous administration to establish a broad
and strategic plan for protecting the interests of American workers and communities, targeting chokepoints that
threaten the security of the United States and the stability of international systems, increasing smart cooperation
with America's closest democratic allies, and eliminating the concentrations of capacity and control that limit
industrial innovation. The first important description of this policy was put forth by National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan in a speech on April 27, 2023. The second was shared by U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai in a
speech at an event hosted by the Open Markets Institute on June 15, 2023. Both speeches focused closely on the
need to rebuild trade systems in ways that ensure resiliency and stability. Amb. Tai's speech, meanwhile, detailed
the fundamental intersection between domestic competition policy and international trade policy.

4) A New Vision to Regulating Information and Communications Infrastructure. The Biden Administration, as part of
the broad reconceptualization of competition and trade policy, has also begun to sketch out a new vision for how to
regulate both domestic and international communications systems. Importantly, this includes a careful reappraisal
of whether trade policies established over the last 30 years should be updated to account for the recent evolution in
thinking about the nature of these corporations, as well as the purpose of these regulatory regimes.

5) A New Map of the Problem: The Biden Administration has taken a great leap forward in closely studying the
effects of the supply chain disruptions of the last two years. The administration has, for instance, organized deep
integrated studies of the structure of supply chain fragility generally, the structures of the semiconductor and battery
industries specifically, and all links in the container transportation system, including ocean carriers, ports, railroads,
and trucking. In addition, and of fundamental importance, the U.S. Congress has also dramatically improved its
work on these issues, hosting hearings on supply chain fragility, the concentration of capacity and control within the
semiconductor industry, and the concentration of pharmaceutical ingredients in China, among other topics. During
this same period, key U.S. allies in Europe and Asia have made similar advances in mapping the chokepoints and
in developing plans to effectively distribute capacity.

IV) FINISHING THE JOB - The Next Stage in Rebuilding a Resilient System.

Despite this long list of successes, the administration and Congress must do much more, and swiftly. The United
States still lacks any real plan to break dangerous chokepoints in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, in
data storage and computing capacities, in electronics components and materials, in the building of ships and
aircraft, and many other key sectors.

To this end, the Open Market Institute recommends the following immediate actions:

A) Establish a hierarchy of threats, to strategically guide action and investment. Such a hierarchy will help
policymakers, Congress, and enforcement agencies focus limited resources on the biggest and most immediate
threats, and on the solutions that deliver the greatest near-term advances.

                                                                                               Page 9 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

B) Work with G7 allies and other close industrial partners to combine our individual national assessments of threats
and strengths into a common document that will help us develop our strategic plan of action.

C) Speed the use of public investment to address the most immediately threatening industrial chokepoints.
Specifically, Congress should target the offshore concentration of vital capacity in the chemical and pharmaceutical
industries, in electronics components and materials, and in the building of ships and heavy industrial equipment.
Congress should also target domestic concentration of vital capacity in data storage and computing capacities, as
well as in aircraft manufacturing.

D) Work with NATO allies to develop and enforce common policies to target China's chokepoint power. Most
immediately, this means helping the German government

block plans by some of Germany's largest industrial corporations - including the chemical giant BASF - to move
additional keystone production capacities to China.

E) Target concentrations of capacity and control in cloud storage and computing services.

As a recent report for the Carnegie Endowment made clear, "national governments' core interest in cloud
computing... is to reduce the likelihood of a systemic failure that has a cascading impact on critical functions or
national security." The rapid development of advanced AI technologies is only increasing the need to act.4

F) Restore traditional approaches to regulating international communications systems. This should include
abandonment of falsifying policy frameworks that call for liberalization of cross-border "trade" in data, and that
instead view international communications platforms as essential forms of infrastructure.

G) Enlist the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development in efforts to map, understand, and counter extreme and dangerous concentrations of industrial and
communications capacity.

APPENDIX #1

How Concentration Threatens Supply Chain Resiliency - Study by Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade, and
Industry (METI)

APPENDIX #2

Principles to Guide Efforts to Restore Industrial System Resiliency

To the extent that we can distill a few simple principles and rules from our research and writing on a wide variety of
shocks during the last two decades, we have found that:

*The basic problem lies in the structure of the system, not the shock. As Charles Perrow put it in his classic study of
how to design safe systems, accidents are "normal." The challenge, therefore, is not to build systems that depend
on human beings preventing all disruptions, but to design systems that are able to absorb any shock.

* "Just-in-time" manufacturing and distribution is not the problem. But such practices can accelerate the shock and
the speed at which any disruption affects the public and forces the government to act.

* Our challenge is to engineer resiliency. Competition law and enforcement are a critical part of the toolkit people
use to physically structure complex systems to ensure their resiliency and security. We should therefore apply
bright-line rules to all essential production and communications systems.

* We can make our industrial systems almost perfectly resilient. There is never a reason for any industrial system to
depend on single points of failure. We can structure and link these machines in whichever way we choose. Fragility
is proof of bad engineering, hence of poor legal and regulatory design decisions.

                                                                                             Page 10 of 12
     Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

* We can structure these systems to promote peace and cooperation among peoples in different nations, and in
ways that promote broad prosperity.

* Local systems of distribution can be just as fragile as national and international systems. A well-designed
international system will tend to provide the greatest degree of resiliency and security.

* Bright-line rules help prevent concentration of political power and control. As Locke put it more than three
centuries ago, "[F]reedom of men under government is to have a standing rule to live by, common to every one of
that society, and made by the legislative power erected in it." Such a rule protects the individual business and
person from being "subject to the inconstant, uncertain, arbitrary will of another man."5

APPENDIX #3

Additional Reading - Books, Speeches, Articles

* "Remarks by Ambassador Katherine Tai at the Open Markets Institute," National Press Club, June 15, 2023.

* "Remarks by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Renewing American Economic Leadership," Brookings
Institution, April 27, 2023

* OECD-Open Markets Conference, "Shock Proof: Building Resilient Systems in the 21st Century," April 24, 2020.

* End of the Line: The Rise and Coming Fall of the Global Corporation, Barry Lynn, Doubleday, New York, August
2005.

* Cornered: The New Monopoly Capitalism and the Economics of Destruction, Barry Lynn, Wiley, 2010.

* The Resilient Enterprise: Overcoming Vulnerability for Competitive Advantage, Yossi Sheffi, MIT Press, 2005.

* The Power of Resilience: How the Best Companies Manage the Unexpected, Yossi Sheffi, MIT Press, 2015.

* Normal Accidents: Living With High-Risk Technologies, Charles Perrow, Princeton, 1999.

* Breakthrough Supply Chains: How Companies and Nations Can Thrive and Prosper in an Uncertain World,"
Christopher Gopal, et. al., Chicago, McGraw Hill, 2023.

* "Manufacturing and Liberty," Barry Lynn, Washington Monthly, January 2023

* "Antimonopoly Power," Barry Lynn, Foreign Affairs, July/August 2022

* "To Fix the Supply Chain Mess, Take on Wall Street," Garphil Julien, Washington Monthly, December 2021.

* "Building Food Systems Resiliency Through Different Business Scales and Forms," an Open Markets Institute
Report, Claire Kelloway (lead reporter), June 2021.

* "How the United States marched the semiconductor industry into its trade war with China," Chad P. Bown,
Peterson Institute for International Economics, December 2020.

* "Systemic Supply Chain Risk," Yossi Sheffi and Barry C. Lynn, The Bridge, Fall 2014. The first article in which an
engineer recognized the systemic nature of international production arrangements and the potential for cascading
crashes.

* "The New China Syndrome: American Business Meets Its New Master," Barry Lynn, Harper's, November 2015.

* "New York's Looming Food Disaster," Sidhartha Mahanta, Atlantic City Lab, October 21, 2013.

* "A Year After Sandy, Food and Fuel Supplies are as Vulnerable as Ever," Sidhartha Mahanta, Reuters, October
28, 2013.

                                                                                              Page 11 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

* "How Detroit Went Bottom-Up: Outsourcing Has Made the Automotive Industry So CoDependent and Fragile that
One Company's Downfall is Every Company's Concern," Barry Lynn, The American Prospect, September 2009.

* "New York's Looming Food Disaster," Sidhartha Mahanta, Atlantic City Lab, October 21, 2013.

* "A Year After Sandy, Food and Fuel Supplies are as Vulnerable as Ever," Sidhartha Mahanta, Reuters, October
28, 2013.

* "Built to Break: The International System of Bottlenecks in the Era of Monopoly," Barry Lynn, Challenge Magazine,
March/April 2011.

* "War, Trade, and Utopia," Barry Lynn, The National Interest, Winter 2006.

* "The Fragility That Threatens," Barry Lynn, Financial Times, October 17, 2005.

*"Preparing for the Next Pandemic," Michael T. Osterholm, Foreign Affairs, July/August 2005.

* "Unmade in America: The True Cost of a Global Supply Chain," Barry Lynn, Harper's, June 2002.

* Gideon Rachman, "How America is Reshaping the Global Economy," Financial Times, June 5, 2023

* Greg Ip, "Biden's Trade Challenge: Kicking the China Dependency Habit," Wall Street Journal, June 22, 2023

* David Lynch, "Biden's Course on US Trade Breaks with Clinton and Obama," The Washington Post, August 27,
2023.

*Rana Foroohar, "America is Telling a Very Different Story on Trade," Financial Times, June 17, 2023

APPENDIX #4

A PARTIAL LIST OF EVENTS THAT TRIGGERED INDUSTRIAL SHUTDOWNS

* Great Jiji Earthquake in Taiwan, September 21, 1999.

* September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon.

* SARS Epidemic of 2003.

* Loss of half of U.S. seasonal flu vaccine production capacity in 2004.

* Niigata earthquake in 2007.

* Melamine pet food recall of 2007.

* Wall Street crash of 2008 and effect on international production systems.

* Bailout of General Motors and Chrysler in 2009.

* Iceland volcano explosion of 2010.

* China embargo of rare earth shipments to Japan in September 2010.

* Tohoku triple disaster of March 2011.

* Floods in Thailand in July 2011.

* Chinese Vitamin C cartel in 2013.

* U.S. sanctions Chinese electronics corporation ZTE, April 2018.

                                                                                              Page 12 of 12
      Senate Judiciary Subcommittee Issues Testimony From Open Markets Institute Executive Director Lynn

* U.S. sanctions Chinese electronics corporation Huawei, Fall 2018

* Collapse of supplies for Covid tests, facemasks, and PPE, 2020.

* Semiconductor shortage begins to affect manufacturing, June 2020.

* Port of Los Angeles/Long Beach begins to shut down, February 2021.

* Colonial Pipeline ransomware attack, May 2021.

* Stranding of the Ever Given Container ship in the Suez Canal, June 2021

* Union Pacific and BNSF report congestion in Chicago, June 2021.

* Baby formula shortage worsens after Abbott plant shut down, Feb. 2022.

* Ukraine war creates shortage of fertilizer, cooking oils, and grains, Feb. 2022.

* U.S. supply of CT scan material cut off by China plant closure, May 2022.

1 Christopher Rowland, "Covid shutdowns in China are delaying medical scans in the U.S.," Washington Post, May
11, 2022.

2 Asher Schecter, "Pentagon Report Points to Two Major Risks to National Security: Consolidation and
Shareholder Capitalism," ProMarket, January 25, 2021. 3 Brian Deese, Remarks on a Modern American Industrial
Strategy, the White House, April 20, 2022.

4 Ariel Levite and John Pendleton, "Cloud Reassurance Project: Interim Report: The universal adoption of
cloudcentric operating models is bringing enormous benefits to every sector of the global economy, yet the ubiquity
of dependence on common technologies and service providers also creates a new potential for systemic risk."
Carnegie Endowment, June 2023.

5 SEE ALSO: Friedrich Hayek, "The Constitution of Liberty" (1960). "Being made impersonal and dependent upon
general, abstract rules, whose effect on particular individuals cannot be foreseen at the time they are laid down,
even the coercive acts of government become data on which the individual can base his own plans. Coercion
according to known rules, which is generally the result of circumstances in which the person to be coerced has
placed himself, then becomes an instrument assisting the individuals in the pursuit of their own ends and not a
means to be used for the ends of others.

***

Original text here: https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/2024-06-05_pm_-_testimony_-_lynn.pdf

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8680562 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: June 18, 2024


  
