

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
    Sidus Space Secures Contract with Xiomas Technologies to Supply FeatherEdge Computing System for Fire
                         Detection via High-Altitude Infrared Imaging FeatherEdge C....




    Sidus Space Secures Contract with Xiomas Technologies to Supply
FeatherEdge Computing System for Fire Detection via High-Altitude Infrared
 Imaging; FeatherEdge Computing System to Enhance Rapid Fire Detection
                Capabilities in Collaborative NASA Project
                                                     Business Wire
                                       August 13, 2024 Tuesday 12:30 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 835 words
Dateline: CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.

Body


Sidus Space (NASDAQ: SIDU) (the "Company" or "Sidus"), a provider of end-to-end precision Space Infrastructure
solutions that include satellite Data-as-a-Service on its proprietary on-orbit platform, announces the sale of its
FeatherEdge onboard computing system to Xiomas Technologies as part of a groundbreaking project aimed at
revolutionizing fire detection. This collaborative effort, involving Sidus Space, Xiomas Technologies, NASA, and
Harvard University, will demonstrate rapid fire detection capabilities using a stratospheric balloon platform.

The FeatherEdge system, purchased by Xiomas Technologies, will be pivotal in processing high-resolution thermal
images captured by Xiomas' advanced infrared sensor. FeatherEdge will perform critical edge computing tasks,
compressing raw data into smaller, actionable analytics for efficient transmission to ground stations to demonstrate
the ability to deliver crucial information quickly even when bandwidth might be limited.

The FeatherEdge system will generate essential data, including the location, size, and intensity of detected heat
signatures, which will be packaged into compact packets for near real-time transmission. The stratospheric balloon
is scheduled for launch in October 2024, marking a significant advancement in the development of rapid-fire
detection technologies.

"This sale underscores our commitment to leveraging space-based technologies for critical Earth applications," said
Carol Craig, CEO of Sidus Space. "By integrating FeatherEdge with Xiomas' infrared sensor, we're not just selling a
product; we're providing a solution that could significantly enhance fire detection capabilities for firefighting agencies
and disaster response teams globally. We're excited about the potential this project has to open new doors within
NASA and the broader fire prevention community."

This project highlights the advanced capabilities of Sidus Space's technology and positions the company for future
opportunities in both governmental and commercial sectors. By showcasing the efficiency and effectiveness of
Sidus' low-latency data processing capabilities, this mission sets the stage for further integration of similar
technologies in upcoming space missions.

                                                                                              Page 2 of 2
   Sidus Space Secures Contract with Xiomas Technologies to Supply FeatherEdge Computing System for Fire
                        Detection via High-Altitude Infrared Imaging FeatherEdge C....

About Sidus Space

Sidus Space (NASDAQ: SIDU) is a multi-faceted Space Infrastructure-as-a-Service satellite company focused on
mission-critical hardware manufacturing; multi-disciplinary engineering services; satellite design, production, launch
planning, mission operations; and in-orbit support. The Company is in Cape Canaveral, Florida, where it operates
from a 35,000-square-foot manufacturing, assembly, integration, and testing facility focused on vertically integrated
Space-as-a-Service solutions including end-to-end satellite support.

Sidus Space has a mission of Bringing Space Down to Earth(TM) and a vision of enabling space flight heritage
status for new technologies while delivering data and predictive analytics to domestic and global customers. More
than just a "Satellite-as-a-Service" provider, Sidus Space products and services are offered through its several
business units: Space-as-a-Service, Space-Based Data Solutions, AI/ML Products and Services, Mission Planning
and Management Operations, 3D Printing and Products and Services, Satellite Manufacturing and Payload
Integration, and Space and Defense Hardware Manufacturing. Sidus Space is ISO 9001:2015, AS9100 Rev. D
certified, and ITAR registered.

Forward-Looking Statements

Statements in this press release about future expectations, plans and prospects, as well as any other statements
regarding matters that are not historical facts, may constitute 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of The
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements
relating to the expected trading commencement and closing dates. The words 'anticipate,' 'believe,' 'continue,'
'could,' 'estimate,' 'expect,' 'intend,' 'may,' 'plan,' 'potential,' 'predict,' 'project,' 'should,' 'target,' 'will,' 'would' and
similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements
contain these identifying words. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking
statements as a result of various important factors, including: the uncertainties related to market conditions and
other factors described more fully in the section entitled 'Risk Factors' in Sidus Space's Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended December 31, 2023, and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Any forward-looking statements contained in this press release speak only as of the date hereof, and
Sidus Space, Inc. specifically disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result
of new information, future events or otherwise.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240813334396/en/


CONTACT: Investor Relations

investorrelations@sidusspace.com Media Inquiries

press@sidusspace.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: August 13, 2024


  
