

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 4
      Red Hat Simplifies Workload Diversity Across the Hybrid Cloud With Latest Version of Red Hat OpenShift




 Red Hat Simplifies Workload Diversity Across the Hybrid Cloud With Latest
                       Version of Red Hat OpenShift
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           July 17, 2024 Wednesday 7:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1676 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: RALEIGH, North Carolina

Body


Red Hat, a provider of open source software solutions, issued the following news release OpenShift:

***

Red Hat OpenShift 4.16 adds new capabilities in support of virtualized workloads and edge deployments to further
extend consistency across applications, from AI-enabled to traditional

***

Red Hat, Inc., the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today introduced new capabilities and
enhancements for Red Hat OpenShift, the industry's leading hybrid cloud application platform powered by
Kubernetes, as well as the general availability of Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security Cloud Service. The new
features, delivered with the general availability of Red Hat OpenShift 4.16, are designed to help organizations more
easily develop, connect and enhance the security of diverse workloads for a more consistent experience across
applications and environments.

Delivering better experiences and driving customer satisfaction are at the center of most organization's IT goals. To
do so, they frequently look to intelligent apps, including both AI-enabled applications and edge applications, that
allow for insights to be delivered more quickly wherever they are needed. The technology decisions made today
around these applications and more are often in support of setting organizations up for an AI and edge-focused
future. However, it's not as simple as purely adopting the latest AI technology, as those systems and platforms also
need to run in harmony with critical traditional applications and infrastructure like virtualized environments.

The latest enhancements to Red Hat OpenShift are designed to help organizations connect their disparate, diverse
workloads and create a more consistent management and deployment experience, wherever an application lives
across the hybrid cloud and regardless of whether the application is a traditional workhorse or built to harness AI
innovation.

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 4
     Red Hat Simplifies Workload Diversity Across the Hybrid Cloud With Latest Version of Red Hat OpenShift

A modern option for virtualization

As the virtualization landscape continues to evolve, many organizations are looking to migrate existing virtualized
workloads to a platform that can run virtual machines (VMs) side-by-side with modern containerized applications
and serverless functions with the ability to modernize those VM-based applications when needed. Red Hat is now
offering directly and through its partners a Virtualization Migration Assessment that will take organizations through a
risk assessment methodology to help determine the best path forward for migration away from a legacy
virtualization solution.

The latest enhancements in Red Hat OpenShift for virtualization use cases help further simplify migrating and
modernizing virtualized workloads. New features include:

Metro disaster recovery provides regional disaster recovery for virtual machines (VMs) that use storage deployed
on Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation in conjunction with Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes
for management.

Hot-add CPU provides users the ability to add additional vCPU resources to a running VM in a declarative manner
for improved memory density with safe memory overcommit, and enables users to more easily scale up VMs with
CPU hotplug.

Multi-cluster virtualization monitoring with Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management enables users to view all VMs
across multiple Red Hat OpenShift clusters as well as collect and more quickly build reports for the VMs.

Improving the customer experience at the edge

Minimizing service downtime is paramount to delivering a quality experience for customers and is particularly
important for those applications at the edge. To enhance service quality at the edge, Red Hat OpenShift 4.16,
introduces a "shift left" approach with image-based updates (IBU) for single node OpenShift. Single node OpenShift
users can now shift a large portion of the update process to a pre-production environment, which reduces the time
spent updating at the production site. Additionally, if an update fails or the application doesn't return to a functioning
state, it can be rolled back to the pre-update state. This helps to restore service as quickly as possible, regardless
of whether the update is successful or not.

Additionally, the OpenShift-based Appliance Builder is now available as a technology preview to Red Hat partners
seeking to build turnkey, customized appliances with self-contained Red Hat OpenShift instances. The OpenShift-
based Appliance Builder is a container-based utility that builds a disk image that includes the Agent-based Installer,
which is used to install multiple Red Hat OpenShift clusters. This makes it easier to install Red Hat OpenShift at
remote edge sites at scale, as it can be done with limited or no connectivity and without the need for an external
registry.

Scaling workload security across the hybrid cloud

According to Red Hat's 2024 State of Kubernetes Security Report, security issues continue to impact business
outcomes, with 67% of respondents indicating that their companies delayed or slowed application development as a
result of rising concerns. Additionally, the complexity of container-based Kubernetes environments is also a factor
that some organizations still struggle with.

Helping organizations take a security-forward approach to building, deploying and maintaining cloud-native
applications at scale, Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security Cloud Service is now generally available. Red Hat
Advanced Cluster Security Cloud Service is a fully managed Kubernetes-native security cloud service that supports
both Red Hat OpenShift as well as non-Red Hat Kubernetes platforms, including Amazon Elastic Kubernetes
Service (EKS), Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and Microsoft Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). With Red Hat
Advanced Cluster Security Cloud Service, organizations can start securing workloads within minutes while scaling
more easily across clouds and geographies without the additional overhead or complexities.

Availability

                                                                                                    Page 3 of 4
      Red Hat Simplifies Workload Diversity Across the Hybrid Cloud With Latest Version of Red Hat OpenShift

Red Hat OpenShift 4.16 is now generally available. More information, including how to update to the latest version,
is available here. Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security Cloud Service graduates from limited availability to general
availability. More information is available here and you can try a no-cost 60 day trial here.

Supporting Quotes

Mike Barrett, vice president and general manager, Hybrid Cloud Platforms, Red Hat

"Being able to more quickly modernize both infrastructure and applications are crucial capabilities to better support
customer needs -- but this can't be done overnight. As organizations make technology decisions in support of their
AI strategies, both for today and tomorrow, they need platforms that set them up for future success while also
balancing the demands of their legacy applications and environments. With Red Hat OpenShift 4.16, organizations
can focus on both incremental improvements and modernization. Red Hat OpenShift helps customers prepare their
infrastructure for the demands of AI while managing and maintaining traditional, mission-critical applications and
infrastructure like virtualized environments, all from a single platform."

***

Additional Resources

* Learn more about Red Hat OpenShift 4.16

* Read the blog on Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security Cloud Service

* Learn more about Red Hat Device Edge

***

Connect with Red Hat

* Learn more about Red Hat (https://red.ht/IOS5vm)

* Get more news in the Red Hat newsroom (https://red.ht/1qeXuma)

* Read the Red Hat blog (https://red.ht/1zzgkXp)

* Follow Red Hat on Twitter (https://bit.ly/2FVq6ik)

* Join Red Hat on Facebook (https://on.fb.me/JVGXMi)

* Watch Red Hat videos on YouTube (https://bit.ly/JEkzvc)

* Follow Red Hat on LinkedIn (https://linkd.in/1AlOAXq)

***

ABOUT RED HAT

Red Hat is the world's leading provider of enterprise open source software solutions, using a community-powered
approach to deliver reliable and high-performing Linux, hybrid cloud, container, and Kubernetes technologies. Red
Hat helps customers integrate new and existing IT applications, develop cloud-native applications, standardize on
our industry-leading operating system, and automate, secure, and manage complex environments. Award-winning
support, training, and consulting services make Red Hat a trusted adviser to the Fortune 500. As a strategic partner
to cloud providers, system integrators, application vendors, customers, and open source communities, Red Hat can
help organizations prepare for the digital future.

***

                                                                                                    Page 4 of 4
      Red Hat Simplifies Workload Diversity Across the Hybrid Cloud With Latest Version of Red Hat OpenShift

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this press release
may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company's current assumptions regarding future business and
financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially. Any forward-looking statement in this press release speaks only as of the date on
which it is made. Except as required by law, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-
looking statements.

Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, Ansible, Ceph, CloudForms, Gluster and OpenShift
are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and other countries.
Linux(R) is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other countries. The OpenStack Word Mark
is either a registered trademark/service mark or trademark/service mark of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United
States and other countries, and is used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. Red Hat is not affiliated with,
endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community.

***

Original text and links presented by source here: https://www.redhat.com/en/about/press-releases/red-hat-
simplifies-workload-diversity-across-hybrid-cloud-latest-version-red-hat-openshift

[Category: Computer TechnologyBiz]

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8727265 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 18, 2024


  
