

                                                                               Page 1 of 4
            JOINT STATEMENT ON INDIA MALAYSIA COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP




   JOINT STATEMENT ON INDIA MALAYSIA COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGIC
                           PARTNERSHIP
                                                States News Service
                                             August 20, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2184 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: NEW DELHI, India

Body


The following information was released by the Government of India:

On 20 August 2024, the Prime Minister of Malaysia, Dato Seri Anwar Ibrahim visited India, accepting the kind
invitation of the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi to undertake a State Visit. This was the Malaysian
Prime Ministers first visit to the South Asian region, and the first meeting between the two Prime Ministers, allowing
them to take stock of the enhanced strategic ties. The wide-ranging discussions included many areas that make
India-Malaysia relations multi-layered and multi-faceted.

Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim was accompanied by a high-level delegation which included the Minister of Foreign
Affairs, Dato Seri Utama Haji Mohamad Bin Haji Hasan; Minister of Investment, Trade and Industry, Tengku Datuk
Seri Zafrul Abdul Aziz; Minister of Tourism, Art and Culture, Datuk Seri Tiong King Sing; Minister of Digital, Gobind
Singh Deo and Minister of Human Resources, Mr. Steven Sim.

Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim was accorded a ceremonial reception at the Rashtrapati Bhavan and he visited Raj
Ghat to pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi. This was followed by bilateral talks between the two Prime Ministers.
Thereafter, the Prime Ministers witnessed the exchange of bilateral documents. Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim
attended the banquet hosted by Prime Minister Modi. Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim called on the President of India
Smt. Droupadi Murmu. The External Affairs Minister of India, Dr. S. Jaishankar called on Prime Minister Anwar
Ibrahim. Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim also delivered a speech at the Indian Council of World Affairs.

Both Prime Ministers recognized that the Enhanced Strategic Partnership between India and Malaysia established
in 2015 has helped in advancing bilateral ties into a multidimensional one. Recognising that the relations between
India and Malaysia have evolved and matured across a broad spectrum of areas and that this deepening of
engagement has significantly widened and intensified the relations, the Prime Ministers determined that the timing
is propitious for relations to be further consolidated into a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.

The two leaders noted with great satisfaction the deep-rooted ties of friendship and socio-cultural linkages between
India and Malaysia, and its peoples. The countries shared history, complemented by the presence of a vibrant

                                                                             Page 2 of 4
          JOINT STATEMENT ON INDIA MALAYSIA COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP

Indian diaspora in Malaysia ensures that the two countries remain trusted partners in the field of economic growth
and development

Both Prime Ministers held discussions on the entire range of bilateral cooperation including political, defence and
security cooperation, economic and trade, digital technologies, start-ups, fintech, energy including renewables,
healthcare, higher education, culture, tourism and people-to-people relations.

Both leaders witnessed the exchange of MoUs on cooperation in the fields of Recruitment, Employment and
Repatriation of Workers; Ayurveda and other Traditional Systems of Medicines; Digital Technologies; Culture, Arts
and Heritage; Tourism; Public Administration and Governance Reforms; Youth and Sports; and Financial Services
between Labuan Financial Services Authority (LFSA) and International Financial Services Centres Authority, India
(IFSCA).

Malaysia appreciated Indias initiative in hosting the Voice of the Global South Summit (VOGSS), providing a
platform by which countries of the Global South could deliberate and address their concerns, interests and priorities
as well as exchange ideas and solutions. India appreciated Malaysias participation in all three editions of the
VOGSS.

The two Prime Ministers noted with satisfaction the continued exchange of high-level visits between the countries.
Acknowledging the importance of close interaction, they agreed to hold regular exchanges and dialogue on
bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral issues of mutual interest, including regular convening of Joint Commission
Meetings (JCMs) and Foreign Office Consultations.

The two Prime Ministers encouraged enhanced interaction and exchanges between the Parliaments of the two
countries to further strengthen bilateral relations.

Both Prime Ministers recognised the important role of youth in the countries development, and, to this end, agreed
to promote greater exchanges between the youth of both countries.

Both Prime Ministers expressed satisfaction on bilateral trade and acknowledged that trade is an important fulcrum
of the two countries Enhanced Strategic Partnership, and welcomed the fact that bilateral trade has reached a
record high of US$19.5 billion. They encouraged industry on both sides to further enhance bilateral trade in a
sustainable manner for the mutual benefit of the two countries. In this regard, they expressed appreciation to the
high-level CEOs Forum, and commended the convening of the ninth (9th) meeting in New Delhi on 19 August 2024.

The two Prime Ministers welcomed the growing bilateral investments and encouraged cooperation and investments
across multiple sectors.

Both sides agreed to support and expedite the review process of ASEAN- India Trade in Goods Agreement
(AITIGA) to make it more effective, user-friendly, simple, and trade-facilitative for businesses, aiming to achieve a
substantial conclusion in 2025 and to strengthen supply chains between India and ASEAN countries.

Acknowledging the need to reflect on the contemporary economic priorities of the two counties, both Prime
Ministers welcomed the discussions on convening the 2nd Joint Committee Meeting of Malaysia-India
Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (MICECA).

Both Prime Ministers appreciated the collaboration between the Reserve Bank of India and Bank Negara Malaysia
to promote usage of local currency settlement in bilateral trade and investments, and encouraged industries on both
sides to further facilitate the invoicing and settlement of trade in local currencies, i.e. Indian Rupee and Malaysian
Ringgit.

In the area of digital cooperation, both Prime Ministers welcomed the signing of the MoU on Digital Technologies
and encouraged the early convening of Malaysia-India Digital Council to guide engagement in the digital realm and
accelerate collaboration in this area such as Digital Public Infrastructure, digital B2B partnership, digital capacity
building, cyber security, emerging technologies such as 5G, quantum computing, cloud computing, Internet of
Things among others, between the two countries.

                                                                              Page 3 of 4
           JOINT STATEMENT ON INDIA MALAYSIA COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP

The leaders recognized the digital economy priorities of both the countries and acknowledged the success of Indias
Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and commended the ongoing engagements in the area of payment systems
between India and Malaysia.

Both sides welcomed the ongoing discussions between Start-up India and Cradle Fund of Malaysia among other
stakeholders through an India-Malaysia Start-up Alliance.

Both Prime Ministers agreed to advance collaboration in the field of science and technology including space,
nuclear energy, semiconductors, vaccines and other identified areas.

The two Prime Ministers acknowledged the steady and strong cooperation in bilateral defence and security
partnership as one of the core pillars of the Enhanced Strategic Partnership. Both sides agreed to further intensify
defence cooperation through regular exchanges and dialogues, exercises and capacity building cooperation.

Both sides agreed to further expand defence industry collaboration as well as defence RandD collaboration.

The two Prime Ministers condemned terrorism and agreed to call upon states to reject terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations. Both Prime Ministers underlined that no country should harbour terrorists and agreed to work
together to bring perpetrators of terrorism to justice expeditiously, in accordance with domestic laws and
international conventions.

They also agreed to recognize and vigorously address the linkages between terrorism and transnational organized
crime. Both countries agreed to stimulate cooperation in this regard, including the sharing of information and best
practices to counter terrorism and other traditional and non-traditional threats.

The two Prime Ministers also agreed to intensify cooperation in the field of higher education. Noting the strong
bilateral collaboration and close exchanges in capacity building, Malaysia welcomed the special allocation of 100
seats under Indias Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) Programme for Malaysian nationals in the areas of
cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, and machine learning.

The two Prime Ministers emphasised their commitment to continuing the partnership, including in the establishment
of the Ayurveda Chair by Indias Institute for Training and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA) under the Ministry of Ayush
of India at Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman, Malaysia. Both sides also agreed to conclude the MoU on
Pharmacopoeia cooperation at an early date.

Both sides welcomed the discussions for establishment of Tiruvalluvar Chair of Indian Studies at the Universiti
Malaya (UM).

Both sides also look forward to intensifying cooperation in the field of agriculture including joint research and
development, capacity building and the application of digital technologies in agriculture.

Both Prime Ministers also agreed to expand cooperation in audio-visual co-production, taking note of the long-
standing cultural-connect between the two countries.

The two Prime Ministers agreed to strengthen cooperation in promoting sustainable energy and adapting to climate
change. Malaysia appreciates Indias initiative in establishing the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and the Coalition
for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). Both Prime Ministers also agreed that a concerted global effort would
be needed in order to address climate change concerns and agreed for both countries to consolidate efforts to this
end.

India also welcomed Malaysias decision to join the International Big Cat Alliance (IBCA) as its founding member.
The two Prime Ministers encouraged the expeditious conclusion of negotiations on the Framework Agreement of
the IBCA.

                                                                             Page 4 of 4
          JOINT STATEMENT ON INDIA MALAYSIA COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP

Both Prime Ministers welcomed the continued and valuable contributions of Indian nationals in Malaysia to the
Malaysian economy. They also agreed to further streamline and strengthen the flow of skilled talent between the
two countries.

The two Prime Ministers welcomed the recent initiatives to promote greater tourism and people-to-people
exchanges between the two countries, particularly the relaxation of visa regimes by both the countries. Both Prime
Ministers expressed their commitment to enhancing tourism cooperation, sharing best practices in sustainable
tourism, and exploring the potential for increased tourism flows between the two countries. India noted the
designation of 2026 as Visit Malaysia and Malaysias welcome of additional Indian tourists in celebration of the year.

Both leaders agreed that the connectivity between the two countries is key in ensuring greater inflow and outflow of
peoples and encouraged the civil aviation authorities of the two countries to continue engaging in discussions to
enhance air connectivity between both the countries.

The two Leaders reiterated their commitment to respecting freedom of navigation and overflight, and unimpeded
lawful commerce, based on the principles of international law, as reflected notably in the United Nations Convention
on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) 1982. The two Leaders urged all parties to resolve disputes through peaceful
means in accordance with the universally recognised principles of international law including UNCLOS 1982.

Reaffirming the importance of Indias Comprehensive Strategic Partnership with ASEAN, Malaysia appreciated
Indias full support for ASEAN centrality and Malaysias upcoming ASEAN Chairmanship in 2025. Malaysia
welcomed more engagements between ASEAN and India through ASEAN-led mechanisms towards further
consolidating the existing Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.

Both Prime Ministers agreed to strengthen cooperation and coordination at the UN, including at the UNSC,
UNHRC, and other multilateral fora. The two leaders upheld that adherence to a rules-based international system is
imperative to ensuring peace and development. They pledged to work together to enhance multilateralism,
reflective of contemporary realities so as to make international organisations, including the UN Security Council,
more representative. The strengthening of Council membership with a focus on increasing representation from
developing countries, including through the expansion of UNSC in both the permanent and non-permanent
categories will render it more effective in addressing current global challenges. India deeply appreciated Malaysias
support for Indias permanent membership in a reformed United Nations Security Council.

Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim thanked Prime Minister Shri Modi for the warm reception and hospitality extended to
him and his delegation for the visit, and invited the Prime Minister of India to undertake a visit to Malaysia in the
near future, as mutually convenient.


Load-Date: August 20, 2024


  
