

                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
      Narwal Launches the S10 Pro Wet & Dry Vacuum Mop to Conquer Heavy Messes First Time Every Time




   Narwal Launches the S10 Pro Wet & Dry Vacuum Mop to Conquer Heavy
                      Messes First Time Every Time
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           June 5, 2024 Wednesday 9:06 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 957 words
Dateline: NEW YORK, June 5, 2024

Body


PR NewswireEffortless, Efficient Cleaning For Every Accident And Spill!NEW YORK, June 5, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --
Say goodbye to the chore of cleaning and hello to a new era of effortless cleanliness asNarwal, a leading innovator
in home robotics, releases the sleek, self-propelling, self-cleaning Narwal S10 Pro Wet & Dry Vacuum Mop.
Available from today, this innovative upright, cordless vacuum mop transforms cleaning, making it easier, faster,
and even fun! Perfect for busy parents, pet owners, or those who love a pristine home, the Narwal S10 Pro makes
flawless floors a reality.

 Narwal is one of the top five robotic cleaning manufacturers in the world, with over $200 million in annual sales and
serving over 1.8 million households. The S10 Pro is a slim, swift, and skilled upright cleaner that can be seen in
actionhere. It is packed full of market-leading features, and its full tech specs can be viewedhere.Heavy Messes,
One Pass PerfectionThe S10 Pro is light but full of might, delivering powerful, deep, and streak-free cleans every
time. The powerful vacuum and mop system has 14,000 PA with 76AW suction efficiency and 17N of downward
mopping pressure that helps to remove the most stubborn stains. Inside the S10 Pro is an active water cleaning
system that utilizes 32 running water streams and intelligent water spraying algorithms to ensure the brush remains
moist throughout the cleaning process. While it cleans, it also disinfects surfaces at a 99.99% rate.Life is full of
spills and messes, from kids' cereal catastrophes to wine mishaps. With its unique ability to separate liquids from
solids and give cleaning modes, the Narwal S10 Pro takes it all in its stride. It is equally adept at cleaning wet and
dry disasters and avoids the mess associated with emptying after cleaning up a mix of crumbs and spills that occurs
with traditional vacuum mops.Powerful Intelligent CleaningUtilizing Narwal's revolutionary AI DirtSense™
Technology, the S10 Pro automatically detects the level of floor dirtiness and displays it on its color LCD screen.
Depending on the level of dirt, the S10 Pro will seamlessly adjust its suction power and water dispensing levels,
toggling through its five cleaning modes to meet any cleaning challenge.Each of its settings is optimized for various
use cases, yet when a heavy disaster is encountered, its ultimate MAX Mode can be selected at the push of a
button. This mode instantly provides a boost of power that increases cleaning efficiency by 200%.Flat &
FlexibleThanks to its cordless, lightweight design, the Narwal S10 Pro caters to everyone. Weighing under 10 lbs.
and featuring self-propulsion, it practically glides across floors with minimal effort, making it perfect for easy
prolonged use.No part of the home can hide from the S10 Pro as it is designed to get into every nook and cranny. It
has total flexibility, with the ability to lie completely flat at 180 degrees, which is great for getting under tables, beds,
and chairs. Its edge-to-edge roller has a minimum margin to the edge of just 6mm, and with a fully tilting and
rotating handle, it can get into the tightest of corners or navigate around curved tables or walls.With 50 minutes of

                                                                                           Page 2 of 2
     Narwal Launches the S10 Pro Wet & Dry Vacuum Mop to Conquer Heavy Messes First Time Every Time

battery life, the S10 Pro can cover 3,200 sqft on a single charge!The Cleaner that Cleans Itself!After cleaning the
house, the S10 Pro has another trick up its sleeve: it will clean itself! The process couldn't be easier; users simply
place the S10 Pro in its dock, press the "Self-Clean" button, and the device begins a 10-part cleaning process that
automatically scrubs, cleans, disinfects, and dries its roller brush, pipes, and filters. Using electrolyzed water for
germ-free cleaning, the brush will rotate until all unwanted hair and stain residue is gone and will then proceed to
dry itself in 30 minutes or less using both centrifugal dehydration and hot air at a temperature of 133 degrees. The
process is quick and quiet, with the noise level staying below 58 dB, ensuring the S10 Pro is always in pristine
condition to conquer the toughest messes. "We're delighted to bring the S10 Pro wet & dry vacuum to market to
make cleaning a joy, not a chore," said Junbin Zhang, Founder and CEO of Narwal Robotics. "Designed for ease of
use as well as practical cleaning, the Narwal S10 Pro Wet/Dry Vacuum and Mop is slim, swift, and skilled, making it
as elegant as it is intelligent."AvailabilityThe Narwal S10 Pro Wet & Dry Vacuum and Mop is available from June 5,
2024, priced at $429.99 USD and $599.99 CAD. Customers can take advantage of a $30 USD / $50 CAD discount
by applying the coupon on the listing page, bringing the final price down to $399.99 USD and $549.99 CAD. It is
available          for           purchase         on         Amazon           and          athttps://us.narwal.com/(US)
andhttps://www.narwal.com/ca(CANADA).About NarwalNarwal is known for using its cutting-edge technology to
realize its objective of bringing flawless floors to users. It's one of the top 5 robotic cleaning manufacturers, with
over $200 million in annual sales and serving over 1.8 million households. Narwal has raised over $26 million with
investors including Sequoia Capital, Hillhouse Capital, ByteDance (parent of TikTok), among others. With over 700
researchers and scientists from across the globe, Narwal has made numerous breakthroughs in multiple fields and
won prestigious international awards, including the Edison Gold Award, honoring innovation, and Time Magazine's
Best Inventions.Narwal Robotics Media Contact
Sarah Smith | Tandem Marketing Communications
  View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/narwal-launches-the-
s10-pro-wet--dry-vacuum-mop-to-conquer-heavy-messes-first-time-every-time-302164409.htmlSOURCE Narwal


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
