

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
          Sen. Collins Resolution to Designate National Senior Fraud Awareness Day Approved by Senate




 Sen. Collins Resolution to Designate National Senior Fraud Awareness Day
                             Approved by Senate
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              June 21, 2024 Friday 4:01 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 799 words
Byline: by MYRA TUGADE, Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


WASHINGTON, June 21 -- Sen. Susan M. Collins, R-Maine, introduced a resolution on May 15, 2024. The text of
the resolution was released on June 20.

S. Res. 690. A resolution supporting the designation of May 15, 2024, as "National Senior Fraud Awareness Day"
to raise awareness about the increasing number of fraudulent scams targeted at seniors in the United States, to
encourage the implementation of policies to prevent those scams from happening, and to improve protections from
those scams for seniors; considered and agreed to.

The resolution is cosponsored by Sens. Kyrsten Sinema, I-Ariz., Rick Scott, R-Fla., Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, Roger
Wicker, R-Miss., James Risch, R-Idaho, Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., Angus S. King Jr., I-Maine, Mike Crapo, R-Idaho,
Catherine Cortez Masto, D-Nev., Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., and Bill Cassidy, R-La.

***

Supporting the designation of May 15, 2024, as "National Senior Fraud Awareness Day" to raise awareness about
the increasing number of fraudulent scams targeted at seniors in the United States, to encourage the
implementation of policies to prevent those scams from happening, and to improve protections from those scams
for seniors.

Whereas millions of individuals age 65 or older (referred to in this preamble as "seniors") in the United States are
targeted by scams each year, including vacation scams, Social Security impersonation scams and Internal
Revenue Service impersonation scams, other government agency impersonation scams, veterans benefits scams,
health and benefits scams, sweepstakes scams, romance scams, computer tech support scams, grandparent and
person-in-need scams, debt collection scams, home improvement scams, fraudulent investment schemes, pet
scams, job opportunity scams, timeshare exit scams, and identity theft;

                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
         Sen. Collins Resolution to Designate National Senior Fraud Awareness Day Approved by Senate

Whereas other types of fraud perpetrated against seniors include Medicare impersonation fraud, health care fraud,
health insurance fraud, counterfeit prescription drug fraud, funeral and cemetery fraud, "anti-aging" product fraud,
telemarketing fraud, charity and disaster scams, internet fraud, and cyberattacks;

Whereas the Government Accountability Office has estimated that seniors lose a staggering $2,900,000,000 each
year to an ever-growing array of financial exploitation schemes and scams;

Whereas, since 2013, the Fraud Hotline of the Special Committee on Aging of the Senate has received more than
10,000 complaints reporting possible scams from individuals in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;

Whereas the ease with which criminals contact seniors through the internet and telephone increases as more
creative schemes emerge and scammers employ new technologies, such as artificial intelligence and "spoofing"
of caller ID information, to fraudulently gain the trust of seniors;

Whereas, according to the Consumer Sentinel Network Data Book 2023 released by the Federal Trade
Commission, individuals age 60 or older reported losing almost $2,000,000,000 to fraud in 2023, with a median loss
for victims age 80 or older of $1,450, more than 3 times the median amount lost by those victims between the ages
of 50 and 59;

Whereas senior fraud is underreported by victims due to shame, stigma, and lack of information about where to
report fraud; and

Whereas May 15, 2024, is an appropriate day to establish as "National Senior Fraud Awareness Day": Now,
therefore, be it

Resolved, That the Senate--

(1) supports the designation of May 15, 2024, as "National Senior Fraud Awareness Day";

(2) recognizes National Senior Fraud Awareness Day as an opportunity to raise awareness about the barrage of
scams that individuals age 65 or older (referred to in this resolution as "seniors") in the United States face in
person, by mail, on the phone, via text message, and online;

(3) recognizes that law enforcement agencies, consumer protection groups, area agencies on aging, and financial
institutions all play vital roles in--

(A) preventing the proliferation of scams targeting seniors in the United States; and

(B) educating seniors about those scams;

(4) encourages--

(A) the implementation of policies to prevent scams targeting seniors; and

(B) the improvement of efforts to protect seniors from those scams; and

(5) honors the commitment and dedication of the individuals and organizations that work tirelessly to fight against
scams targeting seniors.

TARGETED NEWS SERVICE (founded 2004) features non-partisan 'edited journalism' news briefs and information
for news organizations, public policy groups and individuals; as well as 'gathered' public policy information,
including news releases, reports, speeches. For more information contact MYRON STRUCK, editor,
editor@targetednews.com, Springfield, Virginia; 703/304-1897; https://targetednews.com

T55-MyraT 240621-1741448

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
         Sen. Collins Resolution to Designate National Senior Fraud Awareness Day Approved by Senate


Load-Date: June 21, 2024


  
