

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
     Reltio 's Newest Innovations Empower Data Leaders with Premier Data Unification and AI Capabilities The
                            latest release of the Reltio Connected Data Platform exp....




    Reltio's Newest Innovations Empower Data Leaders with Premier Data
   Unification and AI Capabilities; The latest release of the Reltio Connected
    Data Platform expands GenAI capabilities, adds Product and Supplier
         velocity packs, enhances audience-segmentation capabilities
                                                    Business Wire
                                        June 17, 2024 Monday 1:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1025 words
Dateline: REDWOOD SHORES, Calif.

Body

Reltio ®, a leader in data unification and management solutions, announced today the latest release of the Reltio
Connected Data Platform, which further empowers data leaders by enhancing its AI-powered platform and
offerings: Reltio Customer 360 Data Product(TM), Reltio Multidomain MDM, and Reltio Entity Resolution.

Reltio's feature-rich release includes new velocity packs, additional audience-segmentation capabilities for
Customer 360 Data Product, premium business continuity service featuring cross-regional disaster recovery and
enhanced data resiliency, and expanded generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) and machine learning (ML)
capabilities.

"Trusted data is the cornerstone of successful business transformation and AI, which is why we are excited to
deliver market-leading products that revolutionize data unification and management," said Manish Sood, CEO and
Founder of Reltio. "Our customers rely on us to deliver consistently reliable data in milliseconds and at scale for
their business-critical operations. This newest version of our platform is rich in features and benefits to help boost
performance, speed, and ease of use. It also provides even more value through our greater use of GenAI, so our
customers can more quickly extract valuable insights and gain a competitive edge through analytics, machine
learning, and data science."

The latest enhancements include a variety of new features and benefits:
    •     New audience segmentation and activation capabilities within the Reltio Customer 360 Data Product
          provide sales, service, and marketing teams access to the right data at the right time.
         •     Users can more easily create, manage, and activate trusted and dynamic customer data segments
               with a new audience segmentation user interface and enhanced GenAI-driven skills for data
               exploration.
         •     Using the Reltio Intelligent Assistant (RIA)(TM), a GenAI-powered conversational assistant, users can
               explore customer data and create granular, dynamically updated segments.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
    Reltio 's Newest Innovations Empower Data Leaders with Premier Data Unification and AI Capabilities The
                           latest release of the Reltio Connected Data Platform exp....

    •   New velocity packs deployed via the Reltio Multidomain MDM product help users jumpstart their master
        data management journeys. Like all Reltio velocity packs, these new entrants include industry-specific data
        models and prebuilt components so users can implement a modern data management program and
        quickly experience value.
        •      Reltio for Supplier accelerates unifying and standardizing supplier data across the enterprise, helping
               companies optimize supply chain performance and reduce compliance risk. It includes an out-of-the-
               box data model and a preconfigured user interface, match rules, and pre-built integrations and
               mappings for rapid time-to-value and lower data error risk. Its prebuilt components replace extensive
               manual effort and configuration for getting started.
        •      Reltio for Product makes it easier for users to manage inventory effectively and boost product sales. It
               includes a prebuilt data model and prebuilt configurations, a preconfigured user interface, and match
               rules for rapid time-to-value and lower error risk. Users of this velocity pack can accelerate their
               product innovation and fine-tune their sales strategies based on understanding how various products
               are performing in the market. Reltio has enhanced the ability to create a wizard-like experience for
               creating new profiles and support conditional attributes, which make creating and updating product
               information easier and ensure data quality.
    •   Reltio Business Critical Edition is a premium business-continuity offering for Reltio Multidomain MDM and
        Reltio 360 Data Product customers that addresses the need for continuously available, trusted, real-time
        data serving mission-critical business operations so companies can avoid outages and data loss. It offers
        multi-zone, mirrored tenants with "hot" standby disaster recovery configurations for enterprises with strict
        uptime and data resiliency requirements, and enables cross-region failover. It provides recovery-time
        objectives of less than 4 hours and recovery-point objectives of less than 5 minutes. In addition, Business
        Critical Edition includes capabilities like AWS PrivateLink for secure data transfer over a virtual private
        cloud (VPC) and Reltio Shield for data encryption using customer-specific keys.

"This release is a testament to our commitment to driving innovation and delivering value to our customers," said
Venki Subramanian, SVP of Product Management. "Our enhanced generative AI capabilities and new user
experience for segmentation empower enterprises to create dynamically managed customer segments with ease.
The addition of Reltio's premium business continuity offering with cross-regional disaster recovery ensures that our
customers can maintain real-time data integrity, even in the face of unexpected challenges."

"To fuel the rise of generative AI we're seeing a tremendous growth in the importance of clean, accurate, and
unified real-time data," said Stewart Bond, Vice President of Data Intelligence and Integration Software Research at
IDC. "Better data intelligence is not only foundational for modern data environments, it truly is also an imperative."

The new and enhanced features are available now.

About Reltio

At Reltio, we believe data should accelerate the speed of business and fuel success. Our AI-powered data
unification and management offerings deliver unified, trusted data where and when it's needed, so that enterprises
can be responsive to changing business needs. Powered by the Reltio Connected Data Platform, our solutions-360
Data Products, Multidomain Master Data Management (MDM), and Entity Resolution-unify disparate data sources
in real-time, creating a single, trusted source of truth. Leading enterprise brands across multiple industries around
the globe rely on our award-winning data unification and management capabilities to improve efficiency, manage
risk, and drive growth. Visit us at Reltio.com .

"Reltio" is a registered trademark, and "Reltio Customer 360 Data Product" and "Reltio Intelligent Assistant" are
trademarks of Reltio, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240617821716/en/

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
    Reltio 's Newest Innovations Empower Data Leaders with Premier Data Unification and AI Capabilities The
                           latest release of the Reltio Connected Data Platform exp....

CONTACT: Alan Ryan
Allison Worldwide for Reltio

Reltio@allisonworldwide.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: June 17, 2024


  
