

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 4
                                     JUL. 30TH, 2024 JULY DIGITAL MATTERS




                              JUL. 30TH, 2024 JULY DIGITAL MATTERS
                                                States News Service
                                               July 30, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2197 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by New America:

This month's Digital Mattersour monthly round-up of news, research, events, and notable uses of techexplores
different tools governments are harnessing to build inclusive and accessible digital solutions and human-centered
outcomes.

In this issue, we dive into some of the innovative approaches, from local initiatives to large-scale government digital
public infrastructure (DPI) projects, that are using inclusive design to strengthen trust in government solutions. We
also open our aperture to take a closer look at what can be learned from other countries' digital transformation
efforts. We wrap up with summaries from two notable panel events covering technology as a means to advance
inclusive economic opportunity.

But first, three big things we have been tracking this month.

Switzerland now requires all government software to be open source. The country is leading the way for a "public
money, public code" approach to government operations. A new lawFederal Law on the Use of Electronic Means
for the Fulfillment of Government Tasks (EMBAG)stipulates that public bodies must disclose the source code of
software developed by them, unless third-party rights or security concerns prevent it. This milestone represents the
culmination of a long effort by Swiss authorities to promote FOSS (free and open source software). "Open by
default" is a movement that has been gaining some traction in government tech circles, but there is a lot more work
to be done.

Earlier this month, The White House announced commitments from across the technological ecosystem, including
nearly $100 million to advance public interest technology. The White House Office of Science and Technology
Policy (OSTP) convened leaders to celebrate the important role of government technologists, and to highlight
efforts to build a robust, inclusive technology landscape that works for everyone in America.

CrowdStrike and Microsoft outages created disruptions around the globe as a software update inadvertently created
an IT meltdown on July 19. Much has been written about the incident and repercussions ranging from flight
cancellations, to online banking interruptions, and halting noncritical surgeries at hospitals. Emergency services
were also impacted in several states and 911 responses needed to be managed with analog solutionsin this

                                                                                                           Page 2 of 4
                                     JUL. 30TH, 2024 JULY DIGITAL MATTERS

instance, manual responses were completely doable. However, there is a larger issue at play. Critical infrastructure
providers need to architect systems with a clear understanding of the necessary measures required during
disruptions. Similarly, users of systems must have alternative plans in place in the event that services are impacted.

How integral is inclusive design in the trust and use of digital solutions?

We start with how a local social network in Vermont is fostering civic engagement and why bringing
underrepresented communities into the innovation landscape is crucial. We then take a look at how "cautious" steps
leading to the IRS Direct File pilot, "boring" designs of government websites, and the implementation of Human-
Centered Design created better, more user-friendly experiences when accessing public services.

Podcast: How did Vermont's favorite civic social network turn into a climate disaster response network overnight?
Michael Wood-Lewis Tells Us About His Local Good Web , Initiative for Digital Public Infrastructure at UMass
Amherst (June 26, 2024)

UMass Amherst's Initiative for Digital Public Infrastructure hosted a podcast with Michael Wood-Lewis, co-Founder
of a Vermont-based online community bulletin called Front Porch Forum (FPF). Wood-Lewis started a precursor of
FPF in 2000, which was based on email exchanges between neighbors, and eventually transformed it into a
business in 2006. The network has been custom-made to meet the unique needs and experiences of Vermonters.
Users can access the online social network to review local restaurants, ask for rides to the airport, share upcoming
events, and more. Wood-Lewis emphasizes that everything FPF offers could work on big tech offerings like Yelp,
Uber, or Facebook, but unlike large platforms, FPF focuses on hyperlocal interactions and encouraging inclusivity.
Wood-Lewis hopes that FPF will ultimately allow Vermonters to enhance their social capital and help build
community.

You can find more about how Vermont residents are using Front Porch Forum here.

Bringing Communities In, Achieving AI for All , by Shobita Parthasarathy and Jared Katzman, Issues in Science and
Technology (Summer 2024)

Many novel tools, such as facial recognition technologies, have created real harm and magnified structural
inequalities. Harmful deployments deepen distrust in the promises of science and government. The authors argue,
in order to combat inequality resulting from technology and promote a more just society, better solutions lie in an
inclusive innovation ecosystem. To this end, they find that researchers, universities, and the tech industry should
actively seek out partnerships with struggling communities to carefully understand what they need from AI.

How the IRS's 'cautious' approach with Direct File prevented its 'failure' , by Matt Bracken, FedScoop (July 11,
2024)

The IRS is working hard to expand their Direct File pilot program to enable taxpayers across the US to file their
taxes electronically, directly, and for free. Expanding the service to a broader audience has required careful,
deliberate planning. The IRS team has taken a "cautious" approach to the roll out and focused on "executional
certainty." How have they done this? The team set relatively simple goals in the beginning by only allowing a limited
cohort of volunteers and government employees to test it. The team also recognized when to abandon parts of the
process that weren't effective, which author Matt Bracken considers a win from a product development perspective.

Merici Vinton, the first official user of the pilot, said that maintaining the trust of users "is what drove the decisions
on how we proceeded." By keeping trust at the forefront, the IRS hopes to change how the agency's services are
perceived and create a smoother process for frustrated taxpayers.

Inside the US government's brilliantly boring websites , by Jon Keegan, MIT Technology Review (June 26, 2024)

Who knew there was a story behind the US government's official web design system and custom typeface? There
are about 26,000 federal websites in the US. Before the standard that we see today, each of these sites had
varying fonts, logos, and designs that often made it difficult for people to access government services. The less
than smooth launch of Healthcare.gov in 2013 prompted President Obama to create two new teams to address this

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 4
                                    JUL. 30TH, 2024 JULY DIGITAL MATTERS

issue and help improve government tech18F housed in the General Services Administration and the US Digital
Service. These teams aimed to fix technical problems, build products, and deliver better government services
through technology and design. In 2015, they built a US Web Design System (USWDS) in order to improve
accessibility and a consistent user experience across government websites. The USWDS included a style guide
and collection of user interface components and design patterns.

When websites are buggy, not mobile-friendly, or confusing to navigate, people may not be able access services
properly. This can, in turn, lead to a declining trust in the provision of these services and paint a negative
impression on the government's use of resources. The creation of USWDS serves as an example of how consistent
and user-friendly design can help rebuild public trust in government.

Can Human-Centered Design Help Rebuild Trust in Government? , by Adam Stone, Government Technology
(July/August 2024 Issue)

Another tool that is helping to rebuild trust in government is human-centered design (HCD)a design framework that
looks to understand people and their processes, to uncover root problems, and to develop iterative solutions. This
article shares success stories of how different government agencies are practicing HCD and even features New
America's Tara McGuinness, founder of New Practice Lab. "The stakes are very high, and using practices of
human-centered design is one way to help governments walk in the shoes of those people they serve," she said. "It
can be an effective way of helping governments get closer to the people they're serving, in order to improve their
services." HCD empowers government to see issues through the eyes of constituents, leading to more responsive
and effective solutions.

What lessons can be learned from bold transformation initiatives overseas?

There's a lot to learn from other countries in their efforts toward digital transformation. We explore the different
approaches that countries are embracing with the next articles and events. For example, how UK's Policy Lab is
using ethnography in policy design and how Pakistan's digital ID system is bolstering financial inclusion initiatives.
Last, we conclude with notable events from this past month, with the Center for Strategic and International Studies'
panel on DPI in the Global South and Brookings' discussion on technology for inclusive prosperity.

Launching a new film: 10 years of ethnography in government , by Kyna Gourley and Vanessa Lefton, UK Policy
Lab (July 16, 2024)

UK's Policy Lab launched a mini-film to showcase how they have pioneered the use of ethnographic research in
policymaking over the last 10 years. Policy Lab was established in 2014 and has managed more than 250
innovation projects in the UK's most critical policy areas. Policy Lab's unconventional approach utilizes
ethnography, a social research method that involves spending time with people and understanding their lived
experiences. This type of research offers powerful and enriching insights into the impact of policy on everyday
people, thereby bringing people to the heart of policy making.

Digital public infrastructure is transforming lives in Pakistan. Here's how , by Tariq Malik and Prerna Saxena, World
Economic Forum (July 12, 2024)

Pakistan has shown an appetite for financial inclusion initiatives. The government established the National
Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) to overhaul the identity system of a country with over 240 million
citizens. The Computerized National Identity Card (CNIC) is now a standard feature in every adult Pakistani's life,
allowing citizens to perform a number of tasks like opening a bank account, acquiring a driver's license, or filing for
social protection.

Pakistan's progress is rooted in recent challenges. Within days of initiating the lockdown for COVID-19, Pakistan's
federal authorities announced that the government would issue unconditional cash transfer of 12,000 Pakistani
rupeesenough to purchase approximately three months' worth of foodto 12 million vulnerable households. This
initiative required cross-sector collaboration with private-sector banks and small businesses to establish more than
18,000 cash distribution points at banks, shops, parks, and public buildings around the country. The digital ID

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 4
                                     JUL. 30TH, 2024 JULY DIGITAL MATTERS

infrastructure from NADRA facilitated the quick crisis response, serving as an example of how the government can
leverage technology to enhance public service delivery.

Event: Approaches to Digital Public Infrastructure in the Global South , Center for Strategic and International
Studies (June 28, 2024)

The Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) hosted an online event late last month on the different
approaches that countries in the Global South are taking to advance DPI. Speakers from Brazil, Ukraine, India, and
Zambia illustrated the unique policy lenses that their countries have taken to develop digital IDs, payment systems,
and applications that allow for ease of public service delivery. Notable examples included Ukraine's Diia platform,
Brazil's Pix instant payment ecosystem, Zambia's ZamPortal data sharing registry, and India's DigiLocker document
storage initiative.

Event: Putting technology to work for inclusive prosperity - Challenges for public policy , Brookings Institution (July
15, 2024)

On July 15, 2024, Global Economy and Development at Brookings convened a panel of experts to discuss ideas
and actions to manage digital transformation and the latest advancements in AI. The diverse panel spanned
academia, the policymaking community, international organizations, and the tech industry, to share perspectives on
the critical question of how to be more intentional about harnessing the potential of rapidly evolving technologies to
support broader economic and social goals, rather than the narrow interests of a select few.

On the horizon

Global DPI Summit 2024 (October 1-3, 2024)

Looking ahead, the Global DPI Summit is taking place in Cairo, Egypt on October 1-3, 2024. The Summit brings
together DPI stakeholders from around the world. It will spotlight the progress countries are marking toward DPI as
well as technologies, policy frameworks, and implementation models that are reshaping public infrastructure.

Special thanks to Daniela Flores for pulling together the July edition of Digital Matters.


Load-Date: July 31, 2024


  
