

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 6
      New to The Street Announces Episode 577, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                            Bloomberg TV, Saturday, June 15, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET




New to The Street Announces Episode 577, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing
as a Sponsored Program on Bloomberg TV, Saturday, June 15, 2024, at 6:30
                                PM ET
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                                June 14, 2024 Friday 6:37 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CALENDAR OF EVENTS
Length: 3500 words

Body


NEW YORK, June 14, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- FMW Media's New to The Street, a national business TV
show, announces episode 577, airing on Bloomberg TV as a sponsored programming on Saturday, June 15, 2024,
at 6:30 PM ET.

"As we approach the conclusion of our 15th year at New to The Street, I am both inspired by our ongoing growth
and recognition within the media landscape, and excited to cover Onyx by JP Morgan Chase, which is pioneering a
significant transformation in the financial services industry," says Vince Caruso, Founder and CEO of New to The
Street.

New to The Street's 577th episode line-up features the following six (6) Corporate interviews:

1). Two-Wheel Electric Vehicle (EV) - Zapp Electric Vehicles Group Limited's (NASDAQ: ZAPP) ($ZAPP) interview
with Swin Chatsuwan, Chief Executive Officer.

2). Real Estate - La Rosa Holdings Corp's. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC) interviews with Joe La Rosa, Founder and
CEO, and José Couverte, Team Leader & Talent Acquisition Advisor.

3). "The Business of Blockchain" sponsored by Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ($BTDR),
interview with Keerthi Moudgal, Head of Product for Onyx Digital Assets at JP Morgan.

4). Golfing Online Platform – Performance Golf's interview with Brixton Albert, Founder and CEO.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 577, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                           Bloomberg TV, Saturday, June 15, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

5). Blockchain Social Media Ecosystem – Geojam's (CRYPTO: JAM) ($JAM) interview with Sarah Figueroa, Co-
Founder/CEO and Sam Krichevsky, Co-Founder/COO.

6). “Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security – Weekly Hack” segment with internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO, Sekur
Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®).

Episode 577

New to The Street's TV Host Jane King talks with Swin Chatsuwan, Chief Executive Officer of Zapp Electric
Vehicles Group Limited (NASDAQ: ZAPP) ($ZAPP) ("Zapp EV") ("Company"), about the Company's first product,
the i300 electric urban motorcycle, and its competitive positioning in the approximately $130 billion global powered
two-wheeler total addressable market. A team of motorcycle experts with years of experience in the automotive
industry leads Zapp EV. Together, they saw an opportunity with electrification in the two-wheeler sector. They
designed the i300 as a high-performance, technologically advanced, easy-to-ride electric two-wheeler that
combines superbike specifications in a step-through form. Swin highlights for viewers that the i300 has introduced
what they believe is the two-wheeler sector's first significant innovation in the last 50 years, which will set the
standard for potentially the next 50 years. Consumers in emerging markets, including Southeast Asia and India, are
some of the biggest buyers of two-wheelers. The forecast demand for two-wheelers is to increase, and the i300 is
well-positioned as an award-winning and patented design that people want. The i300, with its form and functionality
combined with social media marketing, continues to increase consumer desirability for the EV 2-wheeler. The
design benefits Zapp EV and the environment, as the low-component architecture lowers cost, reduces materials,
and streamlines assembly to make the process more sustainable. The Company expects to continue to grow its
global market share within the 2-wheeler EV industry, creating an exciting value proposition for the Company's
shareholders. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit Zapp Electric Vehicles Group
Limited - https://zappev.com/.

Joe La Rosa, Founder and CEO, and José Couverte, Team Leader & Talent Acquisition Advisor of La Rosa
Holdings Corp. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC) ("La Rosa") ("Company") are at the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio with
New to The Street's TV Host Jane King. La Rosa Holdings Corp. is significantly disrupting the legacy business
model in the real estate industry. With a proprietary technology platform incorporating AI, the Company can offer
real-estate agents a choice in pay-out models, such as revenue-share or annual fee base. Because La Rosa Realty
is agent-centric, offering agents 100% commissions and multiple revenue streams. Joe talks about meeting José,
and immediately, they realize the existing synergies. José built and attracted around 14,000 agents for another
company. José explains his vision for future ongoing successes at La Rosa while utilizing its AI technology
platform. Even though La Rosa didn't innovate the 100% commission idea, La Rosa is doing it better while
disrupting competing real-estate agencies and offering agents choices and multiple revenue streams. La Rosa
Holdings Corp. has a work culture centered on its people; this is why La Rosa Holdings Corp. is a growing leader in
the real estate industry sector. The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit La Rosa
Holdings Corp. - https://larosaholdings.com/.

From the Nasdaq MarketSite Studio, Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ($BTDR) ("Bitdeer")
sponsors New to The Street's "The Business of Blockchain" segment. TV Host Nisa Amoils and Keerthi Moudgal,
Head of Product for Onyx Digital Assets (ODA) at JP Morgan, discuss "Tokenization of Assets." Even though JP
Morgan's CEO, Jamie Diamond, is against Bitcoin, he is for developing unique blockchain financial products.
Keerthi informs viewers that since 2015, JP Morgan has committed itself to looking at the advantages of blockchain
technology in improving financial services and transactions. The ODA tokenization platform can potentially change
legacy financial transactions, allowing for innovations, accessibility, and transactional ease. Keerthi sees a strong
opportunity ahead with blockchain integration for tangible assets and those transactions associated with the
tokenization of assets. JP Morgan, a leader in the financial industry, believes blockchain technology can
evolutionarily change the historical ways of doing financial banking and other financial services.

New to The Street's TV Host Remy Blaire, from the New York Stock Exchange Studio, interviews Sarah Figueroa,
Co-Founder/CEO, and Sam Krichevsky, Co-Founder/COO of Geojam (CRYPTO: JAM) ($JAM) ("Company"), a

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 577, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                           Bloomberg TV, Saturday, June 15, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

decentralized social media platform. As an AI-driven, decentralized ecosystem app (iOS & Android), Geojam's
platform design democratizes social influence and content sharing. Geojam's token, JAM, empowers end-users
who can create and control content ownership with complete transparency, accessibility, and security. The
ecosystem's AI machine learning allows end-users to earn JAM tokens through smart contracts, contests, and other
unique campaigns and interactions. Sarah and Sam met at a music concert and collaborated on making
"Experiences" into a business model. Geojam became a cryptocurrency-decentralized, democratized platform that
allows anyone and any industry the power and ownership of content creation and sharing. The JAM token can
unlock "Experiences" and allows full access to products, events, services, and others. Celebrities and music
performers are on the platform, and singer and Hollywood star Mariah Carey is an advisor to the Company and a
large shareholder. Geojam just launched its newest app, "Talent Portal," a secure and transparent way to connect
and transact with talent. End-users connect their crypto wallets, and transactions occur on the platform using the
JAM token. Sarah and Sam see AI integrated with cryptocurrency as a new evolution to the $215B social media
industry. With celebrity endorsements, end-user participation, and interactions, Geojam continues to grow its AI
cryptocurrency and decentralize the social media ecosystem while driving change and positively impacting others.
The on-screen QR code is available during the show; download or visit Geojam - https://www.geojam.xyz/.

Brixton Albert, Founder and CEO of Performance Golf ("Performance"), talks about the Company with TV Host
Jane King from New to The Street's New York Stock Exchange Studio. Performance Golf is an interactive online
platform that helps golfers get better faster. The subscription platform allows players access to some of the world's
best golf instructors, who can offer direct online coaching or tutorial videos. Performance through digital courses,
training ads, specialized golf clubs, and AI can provide a one-stop place to improve a golfer's gameplay. Brixton
says slicing the ball is about 90% of golfers' problems. The "One Shot Slice Fix" is one of the platform's most
popular digital products subscribers seek. The second most popular product is the "Single Strike Sequence," which
provides instructions on better ball contact. The SF1 Driver golf club has built-in 5-unique features that can assist in
a remedy for slicing. The Performance Golf app's AI technology can evaluate a swing problem from the video and
send back a swing-fix AI-generated video with the suggested corrections for improvement. With many online
resources, YouTube videos, and golfing publications, information overloading doesn't provide a single-source
solution like Performance offers on its platform. Golf is the sport that makes the golfer's game worse without proper
practice and coaching. The platform has some of the best golfing coaches in the world and one-on-one coaching;
otherwise, in-person lessons for the average golfer are unavailable. Hank Haney, Martin Chuck, David Leadbetter,
and other recognized coaches are available on the platform. Anyone learning to play golf or looking to improve their
overall golf games can become a subscriber by going to the Company's website - Performance Golf. The on-screen
QR code is available during the show; download or visit Performance Golf - https://www.performancegolf.com/.

New to The Street TV airs its "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security Segment – The Weekly Hack" with internationally
acclaimed internet privacy expert Alain Ghiai, CEO of Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQX: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR)
(FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF). TV Host and Multi-media Journalist Ana Berry and Alain discuss a recent hospital network,
Ascension Health, shut down due to a significant cybersecurity hack. Anna met a woman who needed a cancer
screening test, and the hospital could not provide the medical test because the whole network chain was offline due
to the hack. Medical records are valuable data for hackers, and Alain states that 91% of hacking is from a
compromised email address. Hackers access an email platform by phishing or from a business-compromised email
address. They then monitor email communication until they can access the technology platform. They might watch
emails for weeks, collecting sensitive data long before committing data theft. Sekur offers businesses, individuals,
and governmental entities affordable encrypted solutions to fend off possible email compromises. Sekur's newest
cybersecurity solution, SekurRelay, is an email technology feature that allows enterprises and governments to
format SekurMail's SekurSend feature with specific roles/functions. Individuals, businesses, and governments can
subscribe and utilize a full suite of Sekur solutions to minimize possible cybersecurity issues. Sekur owns and
operates its servers in Switzerland, a country with very tough privacy laws. The Company never tracks your
devices, never sells data, doesn't use 3rd party platforms, never asks for phone numbers, and keeps one's internet
traffic private and secure. PROMO CODE: PRIVACY is now available, giving 15% savings toward monthly and
yearly subscriptions, and the discount is available for Sekur solution bundles and will remain active for five years.
Viewers, please tune in next time for the newest cybersecurity topic on the "Sekur Privacy & Sekur Security–

                                                                                                 Page 4 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 577, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                           Bloomberg TV, Saturday, June 15, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

Weekly Hack" segment. The on-screen QR code is available during the shows to download more info or visit Sekur
Private Data, Ltd. – https://sekurprivatedata.com/, http://sekur.com/ and https://sekur.com/en/vpn. Privacy has
arrived!

About Zapp Electric Vehicles Group Limited (NASDAQ: ZAPP) ($ZAPP):

Zapp EV (NASDAQ: ZAPP) ($ZAPP) and its operating subsidiaries are run by a team of experts from the mobility
industry on a mission to redefine the electric two-wheeler segment. Zapp's debut product, the i300, is an urban
electric high-performance two-wheeler capable of traditional motorcycle performance levels in a step-through
format, combining ease of use with exhilaration and fun. The i300 is the first in a high-performance electric two-
wheeler suite that Zapp plans to bring to market. Zapp will offer a high-quality direct-to-customer experience known
as DSDTC (drop-ship-direct-to-customer). Customers ordering the i300 online will have their bikes conveniently
delivered to their homes by authorized "Zappers," who will provide at-home inspection, service, and support
throughout the vehicle ownership lifecycle. Zapp is a registered Zapp Electric Vehicles Limited trademark in the
United Kingdom and other countries. For more information, visit www.zappev.com.

About La Rosa Holdings Corp. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC):

La Rosa Holdings Corp. (NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC) is disrupting the real estate industry by offering agents a
choice between a revenue share model or an annual fee-based model with 100% agent commissions. Leveraging
its proprietary technology platform, La Rosa empowers agents and franchisees to deliver top-tier service to their
clients. The Company provides residential and commercial real estate brokerage services and offers its sales and
franchise agents technology-based products and services. La Rosa's business model is structured around internal
services for agents and external services for the public, including residential and commercial real estate brokerage,
franchising, real estate brokerage education and coaching, and property management. The Company has 22 La
Rosa Realty corporate real estate brokerage offices and branches located in Florida, California, Texas, and
Georgia. The Company also has 15 La Rosa Realty franchised real estate brokerage offices and branches and two
affiliated real estate brokerage offices in the United States and Puerto Rico - https://larosaholdings.com/.

About JP Morgan's Onyx Digital Assets:

Onyx Digital Assets ("Onyx") by J.P. Morgan is at the forefront of a major shift in the financial services industry.
They are the first global bank to offer a blockchain-based platform for wholesale payment transactions, helping to
re-architect how money, information, and assets move worldwide. Onyx Digital Assets is an asset tokenization
platform that enables financial institutions, asset managers, and fintechs to unlock untapped utility for their financial
assets. Recording and representing a financial asset as a programable token on a blockchain increases asset
utilization and mobility, powers instant and atomic transaction settlement, provides real-time transparency of the
asset lifecycle and enables operational process automation - https://www.jpmorgan.com/onyx/index

About Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ($BTDR) ("Bitdeer")

Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ("Bitdeer") is a world-leading technology company for blockchain
and high-performance computing. Bitdeer is committed to providing comprehensive computing solutions for its
customers. Bitdeer handles complex processes involved in computing, such as equipment procurement, transport
logistics, data center design and construction, equipment management, and daily operations. Bitdeer also offers
advanced cloud capabilities to customers with high demand for artificial intelligence. Headquartered in Singapore,
Bitdeer has deployed data centers in the United States, Norway, and Bhutan - https://www.bitdeer.com/.

About Performance Golf:

Performance Golf is a leading online golf instruction company that provides golfers of all levels with the tools and
resources they need to take their game to the next level. Performance Golf aims to help 1 million amateur golfers
play the best golf of their lives and enjoy every minute. Everything a golfer needs to reach their full potential is

                                                                                                 Page 5 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 577, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                           Bloomberg TV, Saturday, June 15, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

available at Performance Golf, LLC. Performance Golf has grown into one of the world's leading online golf
instruction companies by consistently providing the highest quality instruction and resources available to
experienced and novice golfers alike. Play the best golf of your life every day. Join Performance Golf -
https://www.performancegolf.com/.

About GeoJam (CRYPTO: JAM) ($JAM):

Geojam (CRYPTO: JAM) ($JAM) created an ecosystem where end-users can connect with friends, creators,
communities, artists, businesses, and much more they love. End-users Socially engage-to-earn platform powered
by Al-generated prompts, making it simple for everyone to share and create in the fan economy. The Geojam's JAM
Token drives the entire ecosystem and social economy. Users earn $JAM for creating content & sharing their data,
and winning experiences and prizes. The Geojam platform is backed and trusted by a world-class group of
celebrities. The app is available for iOS and Android devices - https://www.geojam.xyz/.

About Sekur Private Data Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF):

Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB: SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) is a cybersecurity and internet
privacy provider of Swiss-hosted solutions for secure communications and secure data management. The
Company distributes a suite of secure cloud-based storage, disaster recovery, document management, encrypted
emails, and secure communication tools. It sells its products through its websites, www.sekur.com, approved
distributors, and telecommunication companies worldwide. Sekur Private Data, Ltd. serves consumers, businesses,
and governments worldwide - https:/sekurprivatedata.com and https://sekur.com; Twitter: @sekurprivate.

About New to The Street: New to The Street is an FMW Media production that operates one of the longest-running
US and International sponsored and syndicated Nielsen-rated programming television brands, "New to The Street."
Since 2009, New to The Street has run biographical interview segment shows across major U.S . television
networks. The Nielsen-rated and sponsored broadcast programming platform reaches millions of homes in the US
and international markets. FMW's New to The Street show appears on Bloomberg and the FOX Business Network
as sponsored programming. FMW is also one of the nation's largest buyers of linear television, long and short-form
paid programming - https://newtothestreet.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer US/Canada:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking
statements by the following words: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may,"
"ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will," "would," or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. Forward-looking
statements do not guarantee future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of when
such performance or results are achieved. This press release should be considered in all filings of the Companies
contained in the Edgar Archives of the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.

This press release contains forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws.
Forward-looking information is often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek," "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "likely," and "intend" and statements that an event or result "may," "will,"
"should," "could" or "might" occur or be achieved and other similar expressions. These statements reflect
management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management as of the date
hereof. Forward-looking information in this press release includes, without limiting, the foregoing expectations.
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

CONTACT: New to The Street Monica Brennan monica@NewtoTheStreet.com                     https://newtothestreet.com/ 1-
917-330-2564

                                                                                                 Page 6 of 6
     New to The Street Announces Episode 577, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
                           Bloomberg TV, Saturday, June 15, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                   at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6718f11a-04b8-4730-9b33-2e677d1f60a4

New to The Street Announces Episode 577, Six Corporate Interviews, Airing as a Sponsored Program on
Bloomberg TV, Saturday, June 15, 2024, at 6:30 PM ET

Episode 577: 1). Zapp Electric Vehicles Group Limited (NASDAQ: ZAPP) ($ZAPP) 2). La Rosa Holdings Corp.
(NASDAQ: LRHC) ($LRHC) 3). Bitdeer Technology Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: BTDR) ($BTDR) & Onyx Digital Assets
at JP Morgan 4). Performance Golf 5). Geojam (CRYPTO: JAM) ($JAM) 6). Sekur Private Data, Ltd. (OTCQB:
SWISF) (CSE: SKUR) (FRA: GDT0) ($SWISF) (Sekur®) - newtothestreet.com


Load-Date: June 14, 2024


  
