

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 7
          Senate Judiciary Committee Issues Testimony From Supreme Court of Texas Chief Justice Hecht




      Senate Judiciary Committee Issues Testimony From Supreme Court of
                          Texas Chief Justice Hecht
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                              July 19, 2024 Friday 7:10 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3674 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Senate Judiciary Committee released the following written testimony by Nathan L. Hecht, chief justice of the
Supreme Court of Texas, from a July 9, 2024, hearing entitled "Closing the Justice Gap: How to Make the Civil
Justice System Accessible to All Americans":

***

Chairman Durbin, Ranking Member Graham, Members:

Thank you for convening this hearing on what has come to be called the justice gap: the divide between the justice
system haves and the have-nots, between people with the means to access basic civil legal services and people
who need them but cannot afford them, the poor and people of limited means.

I am Nathan Hecht, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas, a position I have held for 10 years. I have been a
Member of the Court for 35 years, since 1989--longer than anyone in Texas history.

The highest-ranking judge in each state, the District of Columbia, and the territories--58 of us in all--are members of
the national Conference of Chief Justices. CCJ meets regularly to consider the administration of justice in state
courts and conducts projects to improve the justice system, such as on opioid cases, bail, fees and fines,
guardianships, juveniles, mental health, technology, AI, and admission to the bar, to name but a few. I was CCJ
president from late 2019 to mid-2021, during the beginning of COVID. CCJ and the state justice systems are
supported by the National Center for State Courts. NCSC, like the Legal Services Corporation, the major provider of
legal services throughout the United States, is more than 50 years old./1

I know I speak for all my CCJ colleagues when I say the justice gap--the denial of justice to those to whom it has
been promised merely for want of means--is a crisis for the country that we must address with our full energy.

***

                                                                                                Page 2 of 7
         Senate Judiciary Committee Issues Testimony From Supreme Court of Texas Chief Justice Hecht

The pervasive need for legal assistance

Since the U.S. Supreme Court's 1963 decision in Gideon v. Wainwright,/2 criminal defendants in federal and state
courts have a constitutional right to legal counsel. No such right exists in civil cases except as occasionally provided
by state law. A person who cannot afford a lawyer--and there are millions of people who fall into that category--may
have no choice but to try to represent himself pro se. But as Abraham Lincoln is famously credited with saying, "a
man who represents himself has a fool for a client." The pro se litigant, who rarely understands the rules and
procedures of the law, or even its language (which is sometimes barely English), is not likely to achieve a favorable
result, even with a meritorious position. Having a lawyer makes all the difference in the world.

In 2022, state courts handled some 18 million general civil, domestic relations, and juvenile cases (out of 64.6
million total, including criminal). That number is down about 22% from 2019, before COVID, but is on the rise./3

Although numbers are hard to come by, state court judges (by one count, some 30,000)/4 commonly report that at
least one party is pro se in well over half of all domestic relations cases. Tenants in eviction cases and debtors in
collection lawsuits rarely have lawyers. Bottom line, most parties in millions of civil cases each year in state courts
do not have lawyers.

This is a relatively new phenomenon. I served on a Texas district court in Dallas--a civil trial court--for five years in
the early 1980s. If I had even one case a month in the courtroom with a pro se litigant, I was tempted to think it was
divine punishment for some misdeed. The person rarely understood what was happening, how to answer, what to
say, even when to stand and sit.

When I thought the person might be right but was not helping himself, I was barred from trying to assist. Judges
can't help one side or the other, even if they need it, even if one might think they deserve it. There were more pro
se litigants in the family courts then, but not like now, in over half the cases. The increase in pro se litigation not
only produces results without regard to the merits of the claims presented but makes court processes less efficient.

The problems of lack of access to legal assistance are not confined to the courtroom. Selfhelp with even simple
legal matters often fails, with disastrous consequences. Seaman Chester Robey, who served in World War II and
the Korean War, called the local tax office for a homestead exemption on two small lots with the trailer and shed he
called home. When it was denied, he simply paid the additional taxes without questioning. A good military man. But
as years passed, facing utter destitution, he called a legal aid lawyer who, with a few hours' work, got him the
homestead exemption he had been wrongly denied as well as veterans benefits he was due. What was impossible
for Seaman Robey was a light lift for the lawyer./5

There are millions of Seaman Robeys. At a hearing on state funding for access to justice years ago in the Texas
Legislature, a victim of domestic violence recounted how she was in fear for her life when she finally called legal aid
for help. A lawyer whisked her before a judge and obtained a protective order, then helped her move on and find a
job and housing to care for her children. At the hearing, looking at the legislators present, she said, "You saved my
life." A small step for legal aid, a new world for her.

Basic civil legal needs run the gamut. Some are more complex. Many are very simple. But all are critical to the
people who need them. Without legal assistance, they lose jobs, homes, and lives when they shouldn't. Studies in
many states, including Texas, show that the burden of unmet legal needs falls on society, adversely impacting
communities, economies, businesses, and taxpayers. I understand that such a study in New York years ago helped
ignite efforts to publicly fund legal aid that continue to this day. Stories of the difference basic civil legal services
make in people's lives are powerful. So is the community improvement that results.

Unmet needs for basic civil legal services--the justice gap--direly impact people's lives, court processes and
efficiency, the economy, and society. I must add, as a steward of judicial office, that the justice gap also threatens
the integrity of the rule of law itself, suggesting that it applies not to all and not equally, as promised, but only to
people of means.

***

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 7
          Senate Judiciary Committee Issues Testimony From Supreme Court of Texas Chief Justice Hecht

One response: pro bono publico

For more than a century, local bar associations have encouraged lawyers to provide legal services to clients without
compensation pro bono publico--Latin for the public good. Free services benefit the client, of course, but more
broadly, the public. Texas lawyers, like those in every state, are generous contributors of pro bono services. Texas'
114,000 lawyers annually contribute over 2.7 million hours in free legal services plus another 1 million hours in
reduced fees hours/6--at $250 an hour, a paltry fee these days, worth two-thirds of a billion dollars.

Still, pro bono contributions meet only a small fraction of the need for legal services. The legal profession simply
cannot meet the demand. Nor should it have to. Grocers are not expected to feed the poor for free, or builders to
house them for free, or doctors to treat them for free (though many do). Providing legal representation to those who
can't afford it has been a noble tradition of the bar for centuries./7

But while lawyers continue to stand to the challenge of providing basic civil legal services to all, all their efforts can't
begin to meet the need.

***

Another response: legal aid

The employment of lawyers to provide legal services to the poor was not widespread before Congress created the
Legal Services Corporation in 1974. Since then, LSC has been the principal provider of free legal services in the
United States, with offices in every state. Texas has three LSC providers: Texas RioGrande Legal Aid, Lone Star
Legal Aid, and Northwest Texas Legal Aid. To be qualified, a client's annual income must not exceed 125% of
federal poverty guidelines--in 2024, $18,225 for an individual and $37,500 for a family of four--just above the federal
minimum wage In addition, charitable, religious, civic, and humanitarian groups provide free legal aid. But without
LSC, the justice gap would be much wider than it is.

***

Funding

Providing legal aid requires funding. LSC is, of course, federally funded. In the 50 years of LSC's existence, that
funding has gone up and down. Each year, LSC submits a budget request to Congress with compelling evidence
that much good is wrung out of every dollar appropriated and that more funding is desperately needed.

Some states fund basic legal services through direct legislative appropriation, case filing fees, and other revenue
sources. Local bar associations across the country often have annual drives to raise money for legal aid. In Texas,
the Chief Justice Jack Pope Act,/8 named for my predecessor four times removed, authorizes the Attorney General
to designate settlement amounts in state-filed lawsuits, usually consumer-type cases, for basic civil legal services
instead of depositing them in the general treasury. Every year since the Act was passed in 2013, the Attorney
General has designated all amounts remaining after payment of fees and expenses to go for basic civil legal
services. The amounts vary but can sometimes reach $50 million in a year. The designations demonstrate the faith
of the Attorney General and his office that funding for basic civil legal services is needed and will go to good end.

Beginning in the late 1970s, changes in the law required payment of interest on lawyer trust accounts holding client
funds for distribution. A client's funds are usually on deposit only a short time, so the amount of interest per client is
small, but the total for all such accounts can be significant. IOLTA programs--interest on lawyer trust accounts--
have been developed (and upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court) requiring lawyers to remit trust account interest to
an agency for use in funding legal aid. The amounts generated fluctuate with interest rates. In the 2008-2009
national economic downturn, rates fell to zero. In Texas, IOLTA funds went from around $20 million per year to
almost nothing, and continued to exist at all only because some banks continued to pay interest on lawyer trust
accounts despite the market. The decline in IOLTA had a silver lining in Texas: to make up the lost revenue, the
Legislature for the first time passed a general appropriation for basic civil legal services.

***

                                                                                                Page 4 of 7
         Senate Judiciary Committee Issues Testimony From Supreme Court of Texas Chief Justice Hecht

Making the case

The argument for increased funding for basic civil legal services is often too abstract. What services, exactly? For
whom? Why?

The argument needs a face. Like a veteran's. face. Veterans' willingness to serve their country, leave family and
community, and put themselves in harm's way, only to return to jobsearching, stressed families, and civilian life,
deserve help with basic civil legal problems. People get that. In Texas, legislators have been anxious to increase
legal aid funding earmarked for veterans. Or the funding argument can take the face of a sexual assault victim.
However distant that problem may seem to those blessed not to have experienced it first-hand, it is readily
understood.

In Texas, Legal Aid for Survivors of Sexual Assault--LASSA--is strongly supported with funding from policymakers.
Or the funding argument's face may be that of a survivor of a storm, pandemic, or other disaster. The need to rally
around the distraught--children, the elderly, families--with legal assistance amidst calamity is easily appreciated. In
each of these instances, the need for funding for basic civil legal problems is not vaguely someone else's problem
far removed but real and pressing The established, undisputed need for funding for basic civil legal services
continues and is growing. The justice gap cannot be bridged without it.

***

Bridging the justice gap

Day-to-day, access to basic legal services depends on the availability of lawyers and their assistants to provide
them. But delivery and staffing are always being improved.

Technology. Computer-assisted meetings increase efficiency. Training for lawyers and staff need not be in person.
In a state as large and rural as Texas, this is critical. Legal aid providers in busier, urban areas can share
procedures and updates with offices across the state at once. Clients with similar issues can be counseled together.
Participation in court proceedings is often remote-- one product of the pandemic--saving lawyers and clients alike
the time and expense of traveling to the courthouse. Forms and other documents can be processed and stored
more easily and dependably. Legal aid offices do not typically have IT departments. In Texas, large law firms have
provided their own IT personnel to consult without charge

AI. The benefits of AI are emerging and quickly becoming part of legal aid. Meetings, documents, and depositions
can quickly be summarized. Initial clients interviews can be analyzed to identify likely problems and solutions. Court
proceedings can more easily be arranged and changed. Many legal aid cases--like evictions and debt collections--
can be categorized and common processes established. AI is not about to replace humans, and it cannot (yet?)
dependably supply accurate briefing or client advice, but it can help in the process.

Fairer court procedures. The civil justice sysem in the United States is largely the product of the 1935 Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure. Most states' rules replicate or draw on the FRCP, which are designed to provide fairness and
order in the most complex cases but not economy and simplicity in the vast majority of the 18 million civil cases in
state courts. Rules developed for categories of cases--like evictions, debt collection, and simple employment and
contract cases, for examples--can be more navigable for litigants who choose to be pro se and more efficient for
legal aid providers. Fairness should never be compromised for the sake of simplification,/9 but neither should it be
denied by complexity.

Expanding providers. Practicing law requires a law license. Legal services to the poor, like all legal services, must
be guided by lawyers, but much of the work can be done by trained paraprofessionals without a law license. The
Texas Supreme Court has just approved a certification program for paraprofessionals that allows them to perform
specified tasks previously limited to lawyers./10

The programs began in Washington, Utah, and Arizona but have now spread to a dozen or so states. Enlisting
paraprofessionals can increase legal aid services while reducing the cost.

                                                                                                Page 5 of 7
         Senate Judiciary Committee Issues Testimony From Supreme Court of Texas Chief Justice Hecht

Additionally, community justice workers can help people recognize legal needs and find help./11

Recruiting, training, and licensing legal aid lawyers. There is currently a shortage of lawyers desiring a legal aid
practice. Those who do find the wonderful client connections and the work to help them professionally and
personally rewarding. But the current system does not make their choice easy. A law license generally entitles the
holder to handle any matter--from complex class actions, antitrust cases, and billion-dollar transactions, to small
claims and drafting simple wills. As if an M.D. degree would entitle the bearer to do brain surgery or fix hangnails,
his choice. Medical education and training have long been differentiated for the intended practice. The largely
standardized law school education and bar exam are not well-suited to produce lawyers who want a more limited
practice, like legal aid lawyers, and their costs pressure those who cross the finish line to seek more remunerative
rewards. The Conference of Chief Justices has formed a Committee for Legal Education and Admission Reform--
CLEAR--which will look at the process of becoming a lawyer from beginning to end--high school and college
preparation, law school admission, law school training, and licensure. One prospect is for a student to choose a
more specialized course of study and limited licensure at much less expense and aimed at a particular type of
practice the lawyer will find rewarding. A legal aid practice can become a more desirable, attainable goal.

Evangelism. The justice gap, consequential as it is on so many different levels--human, judicial, societal, justice--is
not widely recognized. I was seated in a group of older doctors listening to a judge talk about access to justice.
They'd never heard it was a problem. Why didn't lawyers do something? Lawyers are trying, but bridging the gap
must be a public priority. A House Appropriations Committee chair once told me that legal aid is underfunded
because it's only a priority for lawyers. If a used car salesman in my district was worried about it, he said, I'd be
more concerned. Efforts to engage people outside the legal community can improve support for funding for access
to justice. LSC's Leaders Council does just that, involving business people, professionals, sports figures, and others
to understand the need and make the case. In Texas, Exxon and AT&T, as well as others in the business
community, have supported funding for basic civil legal services.

Recently, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences devoted its first open issue of its regular Daedalus
publication to informing its largely non-legal readership of the challenges in achieving access to justice./12

For the Senate Committee on the Judiciary to conduct this hearing today will only help bring attention to the need to
bridge the justice gap.

***

Bipartisan

I have saved one of the most important points for last. Bridging the justice gap is humanitarian and principled, it is
good government, it benefits all of society. It is not partisan and should never be seen in that light, blinding in
today's environment./13

The Conference of Chief Justices is absolutely nonpartisan, its members sworn to a person to uphold the rule of law
and administer justice fairly and equally to all. CCJ has regularly, dutifully, and ardently unanimously adopted
resolutions supporting access to justice./14

The U.S. Department of Justice, sometimes seen through partisan lenses, has established a distinctly nonpartisan
and very effective Office for Access to Justice, led by Rachel Rossi. Director Rossi and I have collaborated on
matters, always to very good end. And LSC, directed by a bipartisan board required by statute,/15 has long resisted
any concerns that its efforts could be partisan.

Justice for only those who can afford it is neither justice for all nor justice at all. I've imagined a Twilight Zone
episode in which a hungry traveler in a strange town goes from eatery to eatery trying to find food. One is closed,
another has a steep admission fee, a third is for members only, a fourth has an order form written in gibberish. In
the end, he's still hungry./16

                                                                                                Page 6 of 7
         Senate Judiciary Committee Issues Testimony From Supreme Court of Texas Chief Justice Hecht

For many Americans, the justice system is too expensive, too hard to navigate, too far removed from real people,
as closed as if the doors were locked. Justice to them seems as far out of reach as food for my traveler.

***

Footnotes:

1. Nathan L. Hecht & Ronald S. Flaff, Fifty years of justice for all: Legal Services Corporation supports Texas legal
aid, Amarillo Globe-News (Feb. 25, 2024) (https://www.yahoo.com/news/fiftyyearsjustice-legal-services-
101032366.html);         Resolution,      Conference       of        Chief     Justices     (July     28,      2021)
(https://ccj.ncsc.org/__data/assets/pdf_file/0015/67011/Resolution-1_NCSC-50th.pdf).

2. 372 U.S. 335 (1963).

3.     National    Center       for   State     Courts,     2022     Caseload    Highlights     at      1     (2024)
(https://www.courtstatistics.org/__data/assets/pdf_file/0026/97514/2022-Caseload-Highlights-Trial.pdf).

4. Institute for the Advancement of the American Legal System, FAQs - Judges in the United States, at 1 (2014)
(https://iaals.du.edu/sites/default/files/documents/publications/judge_faq.pdf).

5. Nathan L. Hecht, We owe justice to all. And especially to veterans., Houston Chronicle (Nov. 25, 2023)
(https://www.houstonchronicle.com/opinion/outlook/article/veterans-legal-aid-18509529.php).

6.    2021     Pro   Bono   Report,    State  Bar   of   Texas   Dept.  of   Research   &    Analysis
(https://www.texasbar.com/AM/Template.cfm?Section=Demographic_and_Economic_Trends&Template=/CM/Cont
entDisplay.cfm&ContentID=57959).

7. Nathan L. Hecht, Beyond Partisanship & Ideology--Access to Justice as Good Government, 73 Baylor Law Rev.
231 (2021) (https://law.baylor.edu/sites/g/files/ecbvkj1546/files/2023-11/16%20Hecht.pdf).

8. Tex. Gov't Code Sec. 402.007.

9. Anna Blackburne-Rigsby & Nathan L, Hecht, It Should Take More Than 10 Minutes to Evict Someone, New York
Times (Jan. 13, 2022) (https://www.nytimes.com/-2022/01/13/-opinion/-housing-eviction.html).

10. Texas Access to Justice Commission, Report and Recommendations of the Texas Access to Legal Services
Working Group (Dec, 5, 2023) (https://texasatj.org/sites/default/files/3%20-%20%20Final%20Report%20to%
20the%20Commission%20%28FINAL%20%26%20COMPLETE%29.pdf).

11. Institute for the Advancement of the American Legal System, The Diverse Landscape of Community-Based
Justice Workers (Feb. 22, 2024) (https://iaals.du.edu/blog/diverse-landscape-communitybasedjustice-workers).

12. Daedalus, Access to Justice (Winter 2019) (https://www.amacad.org/daedalus/access-to-justice).

13. Nathan L. Hecht, Beyond Partisanship & Ideology--Access to Justice as Good Government, 73 Baylor Law Rev.
231 (2021) (https://law.baylor.edu/sites/g/files/ecbvkj1546/files/2023-11/16%20Hecht.pdf).

14. Conference of Chief Justices, Resolutions (https://ccj.ncsc.org/policy-resolutions).

15. 42 U.S.C. Sec. 2996c(a)(1).

***

This justice gap can be bridged with adequate funding, innovation, and public commitment.

I appreciate this Committee's interest in that goal. The integrity of the rule of law is at stake.

                                                                                               Page 7 of 7
        Senate Judiciary Committee Issues Testimony From Supreme Court of Texas Chief Justice Hecht

***

16. Nathan L. Hecht, The Twilight Zone, 148 Daedalus 190 (2019) (https://direct.mit.edu/daed/article/
148/1/190/27276/The-Twilight-Zone).

***

Original text here: https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/2024-07-09_-_testimony_-_hecht.pdf

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8731307 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: July 19, 2024


  
