

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
                            Intermap Wins Phase Two of Prime Contract with the U.S. Air Force




        Intermap Wins Phase Two of Prime Contract with the U.S. Air Force
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              August 19, 2024 Monday 4:30 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: BUSINESS CONTRACTS; PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 1531 words

Body


Phase two revenue is 5x the size of phase one

The U.S. Department of Defense leverages Intermap’s commercial R&D

Operating in GPS-denied environments is mission critical

Utilizing Intermap’s proprietary data and technology to achieve assured positioning, navigation, and timing for air,
ground, space, near-space and airborne systems without GPS

DENVER, Aug. 19, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Intermap Technologies (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF)
(“Intermap” or the “Company”), a global leader in 3D geospatial products and intelligence solutions, today
announced it won a second phase in its prime contract with the U.S. Air Force to support its development of
navigation solutions for GPS-denied environments. This program highlights another example of the U.S.
Department of Defense (DOD) leveraging Intermap’s commercial research and development.

Intermap is a pioneer and leads the industry in collecting, building and utilizing global-scale and highly precise, raw
data, sourced from across the electromagnetic spectrum and extended to gridded or meshed 3D elevation models.
Intermap is the only company with a global archive of precise, multi-frequency, multi-look SAR that is collected in
slant-range and co-registered in real-time with proprietary, complex algorithms. The Air Force will leverage this
unique capability and extensive archive, which is the world’s largest, to advance its next generation of positioning,
navigation and timing (PNT) systems. Further to the announcement on December 20, 2021, under this prime
contract, Intermap will provide relevant data, operational experience, applied technology, low-latency collection and
processing capabilities, engineering and scientific support.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
                        Intermap Wins Phase Two of Prime Contract with the U.S. Air Force

Phase two of this prime contract is 5x the revenue of phase one. Intermap is developing plans now for a future
phase that will be materially larger than phase two and may lead to graduating these mission-critical capabilities to
a program of record, such as Advanced Battlefield Management Systems (ABMS). Further to the announcement on
September 29, 2022, Intermap is a team member on ABMS.

“As recent experience deploying Western weapons platforms in large-scale battlefield environments confirms,
adversary    electronic  warfare     capabilities  increasingly   interfere  with   GPS,    challenging dynamic
maneuver, communications, navigation, ISR, missile early warning and tracking superiority,” said Patrick A. Blott,
Intermap Chairman and CEO. “In these GPS-denied environments, battlefield performance of terrestrial, airborne
and space platforms require precise PNT to enable multidomain operations. Intermap is working on this problem by
leveraging several technological capabilities under multiple announced DOD and commercial contracts for GPS-
denied environments, including with the U.S. Air Force, NASA Artemis III, and an undisclosed commercial satellite
communications company.”

On July 10, 2024, at a change of command ceremony at the National Museum of the United States Air Force in
Dayton, Ohio, the incoming and outgoing commanders of the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) spoke about
the group’s objectives. “I believe the mission of AFRL has never been more critical,” said Brig. Gen. Jason E.
Bartolomei, Commander, Air Force Research Laboratory, Air Force Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base, Ohio, and the Technology Executive Officer supporting the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Space Force. “The future
of the fight depends on our innovations, technical wizardry, and our role to support and integrate within the air and
space domains. Like the past, our success depends on the brilliant, patriotic, hardworking, faithful men and women
from all ranks and all walks of life banding together to deliver game-changing technology.”

“AFRL is trying to build that affordable, competitive, continuous pipeline of technologies that we can then put into
programs of record and field,” said General Duke Z. Richardson, AFRL’s previous Commander.

Learn more about Intermap’s contract vehicles at intermap.com/contract-vehicles.

Communications SecurityCertain proprietary data, technical information, software and scientific approaches
provided by Intermap under the contract represent critical technology as defined by the DOD and is released by
Intermap on the condition it will not be released to another nation and will be used for military purposes only with
specific authority from the DOD in compliance with Intermap’s end user license agreement. The technology is
restricted for DOD use only as Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) whose export is restricted by the Arms
Export Control Act (Title 22), Export Administration Act (Title 50), DODI 5520 Safeguarding Controlled Unclassified
Information, International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR), under which unauthorized disclosure is subject to sever
criminal penalties. Intermap is subject to Communications Security (COMSEC) review.

Intermap Reader AdvisoryThis material is based upon work supported by the Air Force Research Laboratory under
Contract No. FA865124CB011. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this
material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Air Force Research Laboratory.

Certain information provided in this news release, including reference to revenue growth, constitutes forward-
looking statements. The words "anticipate", "expect", "project", "estimate", "forecast", “will be”, “will consider”,
“intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Although Intermap
believes that these statements are based on information and assumptions which are current, reasonable and
complete, these statements are necessarily subject to a variety of known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
Intermap’s forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties pertaining to, among other things, cash
available to fund operations, availability of capital, revenue fluctuations, nature of government contracts, economic
conditions, loss of key customers, retention and availability of executive talent, competing technologies, common
share price volatility, loss of proprietary information, software functionality, internet and system infrastructure
functionality, information technology security, breakdown of strategic alliances, and international and political
considerations, as well as those risks and uncertainties discussed Intermap’s Annual Information Form and other
securities filings. While the Company makes these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of
these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary

                                                                                                      Page 3 of 3
                       Intermap Wins Phase Two of Prime Contract with the U.S. Air Force

significantly from those expected. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the
forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what benefits that the Company will
derive therefrom. All subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, attributable to Intermap or
persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-
looking statements contained in this news release are made as at the date of this news release and the Company
does not undertake any obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking statements made
herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable
securities law.

About Intermap TechnologiesFounded in 1997 and headquartered in Denver, Colorado, Intermap (TSX: IMP;
OTCQB: ITMSF) is a global leader in geospatial intelligence solutions, focusing on the creation and analysis of 3D
terrain data to produce high-resolution thematic models. Through scientific analysis of geospatial information and
patented sensors and processing technology, the Company provisions diverse, complementary, multi-source
datasets to enable customers to seamlessly integrate geospatial intelligence into their workflows. Intermap’s 3D
elevation data and software analytic capabilities enable global geospatial analysis through artificial intelligence
and machine learning, providing customers with critical information to understand their terrain environment. By
leveraging its proprietary archive of the world’s largest collection of multi-sensor global elevation data, the
Company’s collection and processing capabilities provide multi-source 3D datasets and analytics at mission speed,
enabling governments and companies to build and integrate geospatial foundation data with actionable insights.
Applications for Intermap’s products and solutions include defense, aviation and UAV flight planning, flood and
wildfire insurance, disaster mitigation, base mapping, environmental and renewable energy planning,
telecommunications, engineering, critical infrastructure monitoring, hydrology, land management, oil and gas and
transportation.

For more information, please visit www.intermap.com or contact:Jennifer BakkenExecutive Vice President and
CFOCFO@intermap.com +1 (303) 708-0955

Sean PeasgoodInvestor RelationsSean@SophicCapital.com +1 (647) 260-9266


Load-Date: August 19, 2024


  
