

                                                                            Page 1 of 3
   PR NO. 137 GLOBAL SOUTH COULD BE TRANSFORMED INTO HUB OF PROSPERITY BY EMBRACING
                      NEW PATHWAYS: AHSAN IQBAL BEIJING: JULY 13, 2024




   PR NO. 137 GLOBAL SOUTH COULD BE TRANSFORMED INTO HUB OF
  PROSPERITY BY EMBRACING NEW PATHWAYS: AHSAN IQBAL BEIJING:
                          JULY 13, 2024
                                               States News Service
                                              July 13, 2024 Saturday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1319 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan

Body


The following information was released by the Government of Pakistan:

Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Special Initiatives, Prof Ahsan Iqbal said "Global South could be
transformed into a hub of prosperity and progress by embracing new pathways and envisioning a future that is
sustainable and innovative". "The journey towards modernisation in the Global South is a collective endeavour that
requires the concerted efforts of governments, private sector, civil society, and international partners" he stated
while addressing a parallel forum on "Promoting Modernization in the Global South: New Pathways, New Vision"
during Second High-Level Conference of the Forum on Global Action for Shared Development held in Beijing.
Stressing a need to chart a new course and build a better future for all, the minister said that as we stand at the
crossroads of history with the dawn of fourth Industrial Revolution, we are presented with an unprecedented
opportunity to redefine our future and reshape our world through innovative pathways and visionary approaches.
Pakistan is enabling the new path of economic transformation through 5Es framework by focusing on export, E-
Pakistan, environment, energy and equity to make Pakistan $1 trillion economy by 2035. He emphasized that
modernization is more than just economic growth and technological advancement and is a holistic transformation
that encompasses social, cultural, political, and environmental dimensions. For the Global South, modernization
means improving the quality of life for all citizens, ensuring sustainable development, and fostering inclusive
societies where everyone has the opportunity to thrive with dignity, he added.

Terming technological innovation critical for new pathways to modernization, Minister Ahsan Iqbal said that the
digital revolution offers the Global South an unparalleled chance to leapfrog traditional stages of development
between 2015 and 2021, 4G network coverage doubled to reach 88% of world population with mobile broadband
providing connectivity to internet but 35% have access to internet in developing countries compared to 80% in
developed world. Increasing 35% to 75% could add $2 trillion to their economies. Embracing cutting-edge
technologies such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, and the internet of things can drive efficiency,
transparency, and innovation across various sectors. Providing access to Internet is a basic for development in now
economy, he added. The minister further remarked that sustainable development must be at the core of

                                                                            Page 2 of 3
   PR NO. 137 GLOBAL SOUTH COULD BE TRANSFORMED INTO HUB OF PROSPERITY BY EMBRACING
                      NEW PATHWAYS: AHSAN IQBAL BEIJING: JULY 13, 2024

modernization efforts. By 2030, the global renewable energy market is projected to reach $1.5 trillion, providing a
significant opportunity for the Global South to invest in renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, and green
infrastructure. By doing so, we can address climate change, reduce environmental degradation, and create resilient
communities, he added. Pakistan, he said, faced the worst climate disaster in 2022 causing damage of $30 billion
to people and economy. Most of the countries faced this challenge and we need proactive steps to tackle the
challenge of climate change. Stressing upon the imperative of education and skills development, he said that Global
South has the biggest bulk of youth in the world. Investing in education and skills development is crucial for
equipping our youth with the tools needed to thrive in the new economy in which many of today's skills are likely to
be redundant. Currently, only 34% of young people in low-income countries complete secondary school.
Emphasizing STEM education, vocational training, and lifelong learning will empower individuals and boost
economic productivity, he added. Prof Ahsan Iqbal said that modernization requires inclusive governance structures
that are transparent, accountable, and responsive to the needs of all citizens. Strengthening public institutions for
superior service delivery and promoting good governance based on merit and respect for citizens will ensure that
the benefits of modernization are equitably distributed and don't create inequality and exclusion, he added.
Highlighting the importance of regional cooperation, the minister said that the challenges faced by the Global South
are often transnational in nature. Strengthening regional cooperation and fostering partnerships can enhance
collective resilience, facilitate knowledge sharing, and drive coordinated efforts towards achievement of shared
goals, he added. "We must promote BRI to bring greater regional connectivity for regional cooperation." Sharing
new visions for the future, he observed, "Our vision for modernization must prioritize the well-being and dignity of
every individual." This means addressing inequality, promoting social justice, and ensuring that economic growth
translates into tangible improvements in people's lives as China has demonstrated by pulling 800 million people out
of poverty in record time, he added. Highlighting the use of technology, he that said technology and innovation are
key drives of modernization. However, modernization should not come at the cost of cultural heritage. Embracing
modernization while preserving and celebrating our rich cultural traditions can create a unique blend of tradition and
innovation that enriches societies by promoting dialogue and collaboration among cultures and civilization instead
of conflicts and clashes, he added. For global and regional integration and collaboration, he said that the Global
South must play an active role in the global economy. By integrating into global and regional value chains,
leveraging trade opportunities, and attracting foreign investment, we can drive economic growth and development,
he added. According to the World Bank, countries that actively engage in global trade experience growth rates that
are 2-3 times higher than those that do not. The minister said that building resilient communities that can withstand
and adapt to various shocks and stresses is essential. Many of South countries are vulnerable to climate disasters.
This involves enhancing social safety nets, investing in disaster risk reduction, adaptation, and fostering community
cohesion, he added. He said that 90% of youth lives in the South and are the biggest stakeholders in future and
torchbearers of modernization of South, adding empowering young people through education, entrepreneurship,
and civic engagement has to be on top of development agenda to ensure a dynamic and innovative future. Pakistan
remains committed to promoting South-South Cooperation so that we can bring fruits of modernization to our
people. Each of has success stories, we must work together so these become shared best practices for all of us, he
added. Appreciating the role of the Global Development Initiative (GDI) proposed by President Xi Jinping, he said
that plays a pivotal role in promoting modernization in the Global South. By focusing on areas such as poverty
alleviation, food security, and green development, the GDI aims to accelerate the implementation of the United
Nations' 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, he said. "We should actively advocate for peaceful
development and strive to build a world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security, common prosperity, openness
and inclusiveness, and is clean and beautiful," he added.

PREVIOUS NEXT

ABOUT US

Press Information Department is the principal department of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, headed by
Principal Information officer (PIO). PID is working since 1947 with the mission to establish an authentic source for
timely dissemination of information to people through all forms of media.

                                                                            Page 3 of 3
   PR NO. 137 GLOBAL SOUTH COULD BE TRANSFORMED INTO HUB OF PROSPERITY BY EMBRACING
                      NEW PATHWAYS: AHSAN IQBAL BEIJING: JULY 13, 2024

PID carries out its operation round the clock through a proper mechanism of media projection, monitoring and
feedback. It aims to publicize the government policies and also to apprise the Government about the impact of its
policies.


Load-Date: July 14, 2024


  
