

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 3
                              Big Tech is stress testing the grid. It doesn't have to be a disaster.




         Big Tech is stress testing the grid. It doesn't have to be a disaster.
                                                          Energywire
                                                     July 9, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 Politico LLC All Rights Reserved

Section: TODAY'S STORIES; Vol. 10; No. 9
Length: 1641 words

Body


By Jason Plautz America's digital economy is turning electricity into a growth industry after years of flat demand.
Evidence of what's coming is all around us. Nvidia, the dominant maker of high-end artificial intelligence chips, is
pressing its cloud-computing customers , which include Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Meta, on where they will
find the power needed to run servers in the age of generative AI. Microsoft has agreed to buy more than 10
gigawatts of renewable energy - roughly the equivalent of 10 large nuclear reactors - to power data centers in the
United States and Europe. And energy demand in West Texas could double because of the influx of data centers
and cryptocurrency miners hoping to generate electricity from natural gas produced nearby.

The digital revolution has the potential to overwhelm utilities and regional power grid operators tasked with
managing electricity flows. According to McKinsey , data center load is forecast to climb from 19,000 megawatts in
2023 to 35,000 MW by the end of the decade. That's the same as plugging more than 11 million homes into the
power grid. But interviews by POLITICO's E&E News show electricity growth could cut a few different ways.
Technology giants at the top of the Fortune 500 aren't the only ones driving eye-popping projections. They're just
the first swell in a wave of future demand from electric vehicles, electric heating and the surge in American
manufacturing. Taken together, the trends could upend U.S. targets for slashing carbon pollution if electric utilities
fire up old coal plants or build on their natural gas-fired generation. Virginia, a hot spot for data center growth, has
become a closely watched test case, with fears that dominant utilities could slow their energy transition plans to
meet demand. Matt Gardner, vice president for electric transmission at Dominion Energy, said at a White House
event in May that the utility expects its overall demand to double in 15 years. "That's quite a challenge," Gardner
said. But experts also said the transition to high-powered computing is at an early stage. It's an opportunity for
electricity companies and tech giants to learn - before they settle into steeper growth curves. "It shouldn't be that
hard to absorb on the grid, especially with the amount of generation going online," said Arman Shehabi, a staff
scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. "They're giving some utilities strain, but there are new
sources of electricity out there. And there's an opportunity to be more creative in how that growth is built out." At
data centers, vast rooms of computer servers need to be kept cool to prevent hardware from shutting down. An
estimated 40 percent of their electricity demand is for air conditioning. According to the Department of Energy , data
centers consume from 10 to 50 times more per unit of floor space than a commercial office building. And they
typically need to be online all the time. That makes it harder to shift consumption away from peak periods of
demand. T. Bruce Tsuchida, a wholesale power markets analyst for the Brattle Group, said the "lumpy" load from
data centers is making it harder to forecast just how much power those sites will use, and when. A report co-
authored by Tsuchida said utilities should improve their forecasting with an expected growth rate of 9 percent in

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
                         Big Tech is stress testing the grid. It doesn't have to be a disaster.

data center load through 2030. "One of the key things we want to get across is that this is real, this is happening,"
Tsuchida said. "Don't assume it's all going to be hunky dory. It's time to think about how to adapt your planning."
Finding flexibility Those forecasts aren't as simple as matching up a megawatt of new data center load with a
megawatt of new generation. Environmentalists have warned that doing that at a time when electricity load is
growing could lead to more fossil fuel plants on the grid, jeopardizing climate goals. "The opportunity lies in being
more collaborative and more forward-thinking about what large loads can do to support the grid," said Alexandra
Gorin, a lead analyst of utility reliability for the clean energy think tank RMI. "This isn't about one company or one
facility. Are there collective actions we could take to mitigate the pressure on grid capacity?" What flexibility looks
like is still taking shape. Data centers aren't typically good candidates for demand response programs, where a
large load center (or a collection of households) turns down electricity use temporarily when the grid is particularly
stressed. Cryptocurrency mines - which run banks of computers to validate digital currency transactions - have
touted their ability to turn down during heat waves or peak demand periods, but their operations are less
fundamental to the tech economy. Not every data center functions the same way. A March report from Sidewalk
Infrastructure Partners , the infrastructure spinoff from Google parent company Alphabet, found that under certain
applications, data centers can "provide large-scale flexibility to the grid." Planned properly, the report said, data
centers could help shave peak load, soak up excess wind and solar power, and utilize existing transmission that
might otherwise be stranded. "One of the interesting elements about artificial intelligence is that certain AI
computer loads are more flexible and can be orchestrated," said Sayles Braga, a senior partner at Sidewalk
Infrastructure Partners. "You have to take a full systems approach and recognize that different data center design
and different assets on site will interact with the grid differently." Even a center that demands power 99.9 percent of
the time, Braga said, can be flexible for that remaining 0.1 percent - a slight decrease in demand that could be
scheduled to coincide with a summer evening when utilities are feeling a crunch. And for tech companies with a
national or international footprint, demand can even be distributed to focus the most intensive computer use in
areas where there is cheaper and cleaner electricity available. Google has piloted a demand response program that
shifts non-urgent tasks away from data centers when called on by electricity providers. For example, Google
scheduled power reductions in the evening hours between December 2022 and March 2023 in European countries
during natural gas shortages and lowered consumption in U.S. states during extreme weather events. "While we
recognize that grid planning and management is ultimately the role of utilities and grid operators, the data center
industry is committed to leaning in as an engaged partner," said Josh Levi, president of the Data Center Coalition.
"Collectively, we can meet the moment and ensure a clean, reliable, affordable, and resilient electric system that
supports the digitization of our economy, widespread vehicle and building electrification, the onshoring of advanced
manufacturing and other 21st century economic drivers." An opportunity for insight Clean energy advocates also
fear that utilities might delay the retirement of fossil fuel plants - or even add new ones to the grid - to meet the
needs of data centers and other new users. The Energy Information Administration estimates that nearly 17,000
MW of new gas plants will be built by 2027, although not all of those plants may come to fruition. That comes even
as some companies are pledging to run their operations only with clean energy. Google says it has a goal to run its
data centers on carbon-free electricity by 2030, while Amazon has a net-zero goal by 2040. That's led to tech
companies being some of the biggest initiators of clean energy purchasing. In May, Microsoft partnered with
investment group Brookfield Renewable Partners on a deal to supply that by 2025, it will support enough wind and
solar projects to add 9,800 MW of renewable power to the grid across 24 states and 74 countries. An agreement
between Georgia Power, state officials and the Clean Energy Buyers Association this year will create a new clean
energy program that allows large-load customers such as tech companies to bring third-party clean-energy projects
to the grid, helping to offset their potential impact by adding new generation. "This particular program allows
companies to procure energy that's beyond renewables," said Priya Barua, the senior director of market and policy
innovation at CEBA, a group that includes more than 400 companies committed to buying clean power. "It could be
storage or geothermal or modular nuclear. Having this shared arrangement with the utility means there can be
efficiencies and potentially eliminate the need for peaker plants that tend to be natural gas." Buying clean power,
however, does not necessarily ease the impacts to the grid. With nearly round-the-clock needs, data centers can't
rely solely on wind and solar power. Sidewalk Infrastructure Partners' Braga said that pairing data centers with
batteries for backup power can both reduce their carbon footprint and offer a new resource for the grid, but that the
technology and interaction with the grid are still developing. Shehabi of the Berkeley lab - who is working on a
report on data center use for Congress - said that there are still potential efficiencies to be found as data centers
develop. Previous waves of tech growth, he said, ultimately did not crash the grid because companies found ways

                                                                                                         Page 3 of 3
                         Big Tech is stress testing the grid. It doesn't have to be a disaster.

to operate with less power or because innovations such as cloud computing made the industry more efficient. Still,
he said, it's important to bring on data centers responsibly before more sectors electrify and demand skyrockets.
"Data centers are a good first partner for dealing with the growth in generation and transmission. There's more
flexibility there than in any other growth in the future," he said. "This is a great initial run to see how the grid can
handle growth."


Load-Date: August 6, 2024


  
