

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
        Livingston is First Michigan County to Implement Eagle Eye 911 Emergency Security Camera Sharing
                            Livingston County public safety officials say everyday security....




Livingston is First Michigan County to Implement Eagle Eye 911 Emergency
   Security Camera Sharing; Livingston County public safety officials say
everyday security cameras can be used to dramatically accelerate response
                      times during critical emergencies
                                                    Business Wire
                                      August 22, 2024 Thursday 1:04 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 780 words
Dateline: HOWELL, Mich.

Body


With the common goal of improving security and emergency response in the event of a critical incident, community
members in Livingston County have deployed technology that turns their standard security cameras into a powerful
resource for 911 Emergency Communications Center telecommunicators (911 professionals).

"It's all about response time: The key to saving lives, curtailing damage and rapidly resolving an emergency of any
kind-whether it's a natural disaster, fire, mass shooting or other criminal activity-is getting accurate information to
first responders so they can take quick, decisive action," said Mike Murphy, Livingston County Sheriff.

While security cameras are ubiquitous at schools and businesses, 911 telecommunicators typically cannot access
them in an emergency. Eagle Eye 911 Camera Sharing changes that by giving telecommunicators instant access to
live video from one or multiple security cameras when a 911-triggered emergency occurs, empowering them to
quickly deliver critical incident information to first responders through a partnership with RapidSOS .

Telecommunicators generally rely on verbal information from 911 callers. Now, with Camera Sharing, the
telecommunicator can also have "eyes on the scene" and, within seconds, gather an immense amount of
information.

"Camera Sharing gives us a real-time view of the situation at hand as it's unfolding," said Kecia Williams, 911
Director, Livingston County 911 Central Dispatch. "Lots of times it takes a while to attain pertinent information from
a 911 caller because they're distraught or not clear. With Camera Sharing, we can instantly see for ourselves what's
going on, and we can get this information to the fire department, EMS or law enforcement much quicker."

Livingston County is the first county in Michigan to demo the new technology at the Livingston Educational Service
Agency in Howell, an organization that works with local school districts to provide educational services and support
to 26,000 students throughout the county.

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
      Livingston is First Michigan County to Implement Eagle Eye 911 Emergency Security Camera Sharing
                          Livingston County public safety officials say everyday security....

"I am impressed with the Camera Sharing technology and can see the potential for improving response times by
first responders to critical events in our community," said Michael Hubert, Superintendent of Livingston Educational
Service Agency.

Joe Bommarito of Elite Fire Safety, a division of Sciens Building Solutions , a security integrator based in Novi,
Michigan, said, "Most businesses and schools already have security cameras that can easily be connected to Eagle
Eye 911 Camera Sharing, which is a first-of-its-kind technology that has cybersecurity and privacy protections built
in. As a former law enforcement officer, I believe camera sharing can significantly improve the outcome of
emergencies and improve safety and security for first responders."

Dean Drako, CEO of Eagle Eye Networks said, "Livingston County is a prime example of a growing trend we're
seeing in the U.S. where entire communities - schools, businesses, public safety officials and community leaders -
are working together to ensure they are prepared as possible for emergency situations."

ABOUT EAGLE EYE NETWORKS

Eagle Eye Networks is the global leader in cloud video surveillance, delivering cyber-secure, cloud-based video
with artificial intelligence (AI) and analytics to make businesses more efficient and the world a safer place.
Businesses of all sizes utilize the Eagle Eye Cloud VMS (video management system) to centralize their video
surveillance and obtain better security and operations. Purpose-built for the cloud and AI, the Eagle Eye Cloud
VMS addresses customers' security and operational needs with unlimited scalability, simple usage-based
subscription pricing, advanced analytics, integrated AI, and an open RESTful API platform delivering flexibility.
Eagle Eye sells through a global network of resellers and integrators. Founded in 2012, Eagle Eye is headquartered
in Austin, Texas, with offices in Amsterdam, Bangalore, and Tokyo. Learn more at www.een.com .

ABOUT EAGLE EYE 911 CAMERA SHARING

Eagle Eye 911 Camera Sharing is a first-of-its-kind technology that gives Emergency Communication Center
telecommunicators (911 professionals) instant access to security cameras, empowering them to deliver critical
incident information to first responders during an emergency. A recent survey showed that 96% of parents in the US
want to mandate camera sharing during emergencies in k-12 schools. Eagle Eye 911 Camera Sharing has won
numerous security industry awards including: 2024 ESX Innovation Award , 2024 Secure Campus Award and 2024
Campus Safety BEST Award .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240822967237/en/


CONTACT: EAGLE EYE PRESS CONTACT
GLOBAL HQ
Martha Entwistle

mentwistle@een.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: August 22, 2024


  
