

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 4
     NANO Nuclear Energy Senior Director and Head of Reactor Design Prof. Massimiliano Fratoni Honored at
                     American Nuclear Society ’s Annual Conference 2024 and Awar....




  NANO Nuclear Energy Senior Director and Head of Reactor Design Prof.
   Massimiliano Fratoni Honored at American Nuclear Society’s Annual
 Conference 2024 and Awarded the Untermyer & Cisler Reactor Technology
                                Metals
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              June 18, 2024 Tuesday 5:30 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRESS RELEASES
Length: 1710 words

Body

Chair of University of California Berkeley Nuclear Engineering Department, NANO Nuclear Energy Head of Reactor
Design and ‘ZEUS’ Development Lead, Prof. Massimiliano Fratoni recognized for his excellence in advanced
reactor development.

New York, N.Y., June 18, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. (NASDAQ: NNE) (“NANO
Nuclear”), an emerging vertically integrated microreactor and advanced nuclear technology company led by a
world-class nuclear engineering team developing proprietary, portable, and clean energy solutions, is delighted to
announce that Professor Massimiliano Fratoni, Ph.D., has been awarded the American Nuclear Society’s
Untermyer & Cisler Reactor Technology Metals in recognition for his outstanding contributions to the advancement
of nuclear technology, specifically for the groundbreaking development of fluoride-cooled pebble-bed reactors and
pioneering work in various other advanced reactor technologies.

This is Prof. Fratoni’s second and third accolades from the American Nuclear Society, following his receipt of the
Early Career Reactor Physicist Award in 2018.

Prof. Fratoni has proven instrumental in the design and development of NANO Nuclear’s advanced 'ZEUS'
microreactor technology and has played a key role in the filing of multiple provisional patent applications with the
USPTO. The Company intends to file utility and design patents in the near future.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 4
     NANO Nuclear Energy Senior Director and Head of Reactor Design Prof. Massimiliano Fratoni Honored at
                     American Nuclear Society ’s Annual Conference 2024 and Awar....

Figure 1 – Jay Jiang Yu, Executive Chairman and President of NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. alongside Professor
Massimiliano Fratoni, Ph.D., Senior Director and Head of Reactor Design, who was awarded the Untermyer &
Cisler Reactor Technology Metals at the 2024 Annual Conference Hosted by the American Nuclear Society.

“It is an honor to receive these awards, and I would like to thank everyone at the American Nuclear Society,” said
Prof. Massimiliano Fratoni, Ph.D., Senior Director and Head of Reactor Design of NANO Nuclear Energy. “The
Annual Conference 2024 brings together key figures in the industry, including executives, regulators, researchers,
and thought leaders. It is a privilege to be honored before such a distinguished audience. Additionally, we have
already started the process of safeguarding our proprietary technology behind our advanced portable ‘ZEUS’
microreactor design and show our dedication to driving innovation in the new nuclear space.”



Figure 2 - NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. Proprietary Advanced Portable Nuclear ‘ZEUS' Microreactor Rendition.

The applications are directed to the novel design NANO Nuclear believes has the potential to overcome the
disadvantages of conventional nuclear power plants. The innovative design allows for sufficient power generation,
adequate safety margins and optimized transportability, while the complete absence of moving components inside
the reactor vessel increases the overall safety of the system.

“I’m thrilled for Prof. Fratoni and would like to be the first to congratulate him on the well-deserved awards,” said Jay
Jiang Yu, Executive Chairman and President of NANO Nuclear Energy. “We believe there is an exciting opportunity
to innovate within the existing advanced nuclear energy space. Prof. Fratoni and the rest of our world-class
technical team have worked tirelessly on the development of ‘ZEUS’ to ensure that it is the embodiment of the next
generation of advanced nuclear technology: smaller, cheaper and safer. With the provisional patent applications
filed, we now look forward to finalizing our utility and design patent.”

Figure 3 - NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. View of the Proprietary Advanced Portable Nuclear ‘ZEUS' Microreactor
Rendition

Designed to fit within the dimensions of a 45-foot high-cube container, the ‘ZEUS’ reactor features a power
conversion unit capable of generating between 1 - 2 MW of electricity and does not rely on a fluid coolant. The
absence of fluids enables ‘ZEUS’ to embody a greatly simplified design that relies only on fully passive
components, improving safety and reliability. Its optimized design enables it to meet the diverse needs of various
industries, including data centers, AI and quantum computing, crypto mining, military applications, disaster relief
efforts, transportation and shipping, mining projects, water desalination, green hydrogen production, and even
space exploration.

Figure 4 - NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. Internal View of Truck-Mounted Proprietary Advanced Portable Nuclear
'ZEUS' Microreactor

“Prof. Massimiliano Fratoni is incredibly talented, and these awards further cements his standing as one of the
foremost technological innovators in the nuclear energy industry,” said James Walker, Chief Executive Officer and
Head of Reactor Development of NANO Nuclear Energy. “It is a testament to his body of work, as well as innovative
spirit and I couldn’t be happier to have him on the NANO Nuclear team. With his assistance, the Company has
been diligent in effectively leveraging our available resources to advance the development of our microreactor
designs. Prof. Fratoni has been instrumental in this effort, and our provisional patent application filings are a
testament to the hard work and expertise of our technical team.”

About NANO Nuclear Energy Inc.

NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. (NASDAQ: NNE) is an emerging, advanced technology-driven nuclear energy company
seeking to become a commercially focused, diversified, and vertically integrated company across four business
lines: (i) cutting edge portable microreactor technology, (ii) nuclear fuel fabrication, (iii) nuclear fuel transportation

                                                                                                Page 3 of 4
    NANO Nuclear Energy Senior Director and Head of Reactor Design Prof. Massimiliano Fratoni Honored at
                    American Nuclear Society ’s Annual Conference 2024 and Awar....

and (iv) nuclear industry consulting services. NANO Nuclear believes it is the first portable nuclear microreactor
company to be listed publicly in the U.S.

Led by a world-class nuclear engineering team, NANO Nuclear’s products in technical development are “ZEUS”, a
solid core battery reactor, and “ODIN”, a low-pressure coolant reactor, each representing advanced developments
in clean energy solutions that are portable, on-demand capable, advanced nuclear microreactors.

Advanced Fuel Transportation Inc. (AFT), a NANO Nuclear subsidiary, is led by former executives from the largest
transportation company in the world aiming to build a North American transportation company that will provide
commercial quantities of HALEU fuel to small modular reactors, microreactor companies, national laboratories,
military, and DOE programs. Through NANO Nuclear, AFT is the exclusive licensee of a patented high-capacity
HALEU fuel transportation basket developed by three major U.S. national nuclear laboratories and funded by the
Department of Energy. Assuming development and commercialization, AFT is expected to form part of the only
vertically integrated nuclear fuel business of its kind in North America.

HALEU Energy Fuel Inc. (HEF), a NANO Nuclear subsidiary, is focusing on the future development of a domestic
source for a High-Assay, Low-Enriched Uranium (HALEU) fuel fabrication pipeline for NANO Nuclear’s own
microreactors as well as the broader advanced nuclear reactor industry.

For more corporate information please visit: https://NanoNuclearEnergy.com/

For further information, please contact:

Email: IR@NANONuclearEnergy.comBusiness Tel: (212) 634-9206PLEASE FOLLOW OUR SOCIAL MEDIA
PAGES     HERE:NANO    Nuclear  Energy LINKEDINNANO     Nuclear Energy YOUTUBENANO  Nuclear
Energy TWITTER

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements

This news release and statements of NANO Nuclear’s management in connection with this news release or related
events contain or may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In this context,
forward-looking statements mean statements related to future events, which may impact our expected future
business and financial performance, and often contain words such as "expects", "anticipates", "intends", "plans",
"believes", “potential”, "will", "should", "could", "would" or "may" and other words of similar meaning. These forward-
looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this news release and represent
management's current views and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
performance, events or results and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may
be beyond our control. For NANO Nuclear, particular risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual future
results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the
following: (i) risks related to our U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) nuclear fuel manufacturing submission and the
development of new or advanced technology, including difficulties with design and testing, cost overruns,
development of competitive technology, (ii) our ability to obtain contracts and funding to be able to continue
operations; (iii) risks related to uncertainty regarding our ability to commercially deploy a competitive advanced
nuclear reactor technology, (iv) risks related to the impact of government regulation and policies including by the
DOE and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission; and similar risks and uncertainties associated with the
business of a start-up business operating a highly regulated industry. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this news release. These factors
may not constitute all factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in any forward-looking
statement. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a predictor of actual results. We
do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after
the date of this news release, except as required by law.

   Attachment

                                                                                                Page 4 of 4
    NANO Nuclear Energy Senior Director and Head of Reactor Design Prof. Massimiliano Fratoni Honored at
                    American Nuclear Society ’s Annual Conference 2024 and Awar....


   •       Figure 1

Figure 1

Jay Jiang Yu, Executive Chairman and President of NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. alongside Professor Massimiliano
Fratoni, Ph.D., Senior Director and Head of Reactor Design, who was awarded the Untermyer & Cisler Reactor
Technology Metals at the 2024 Annual Conference Hosted by the American Nuclear Society.


Load-Date: June 18, 2024


  
