

                                                                                               Page 1 of 7
       House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                         Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title II - HHS (Part 12 of ....




  House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor,
   HHS & Education & Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title II -
                           HHS (Part 12 of 18)
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            July 25, 2024 Thursday 1:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3746 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


WASHINGTON, July 25 -- The House Appropriations Committee issued a report (H.Rpt. 118-585) in explanation of
the accompanying bill (H.R. 9029) making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health And Human
Services, and Education and related agencies for the fiscal ending Sept. 30, 2025. The report was advanced by
Rep. Robert Aderholt, R-Alabama, on July 12, 2024.

***

(Continued from Part 11 of 18)

RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND PROCUREMENT

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $3,135,000,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 3,082,991,000

Committee Recommendation... 3,277,991,000

Change from enacted level... +142,991,000

Change from budget request... +195,000,000 Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority The
Committee includes $1,100,000,000 for the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, which is
$85,000,000 above the fiscal year 2024 enacted level and $130,000,000 above the fiscal year 2025 budget
request. BARDA supports the advanced development of vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, and devices for
potential serious public health threats, including chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats, pandemic
influenza, and emerging and re- emerging infectious diseases. The Committee supports ASPR's ongoing work to

                                                                                              Page 2 of 7
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title II - HHS (Part 12 of ....

build and validate advanced manufacturing processes and facilities capable of storing, producing, and deploying
essential medicines in the event of a national health emergency.

Antifungal Research and Development.--The Committee continues to support the research and development of
novel antifungal therapies, particularly for multi-drug resistant fungal pathogens, to bolster national health security
and minimize their impact on public health. Antifungal development faces similar challenges to antibacterial
development and BARDA's Advanced Research and Development program support will be critical to generate
additional antifungal products, including for endemic fungal diseases, like Valley Fever. In addition, the Committee
encourages the Secretary to update the scope of support for the CARB-X program to include pathogens listed in
the 2019 CDC Antibiotic Resistant Threats report, which includes products that target fungal pathogens. The
Committee requests a report within the 180 days of the date of enactment of this Act on actions taken.

Acceleration of Antibiotic Combination Drug Development.-- The Committee is concerned about the increasing
public health threat of antimicrobial resistance and the lack of new antibiotics entering the market. The Committee is
encouraged that BARDA has invested in combination antibiotic drug development for both oral and intravenous
administration. Therefore, the Committee encourages BARDA to continue to prioritize the development of
combination drugs, particularly those with activity against CDC urgent threat pathogens which can offer increased
efficacy, reduced costs, and reduce the emergence of AMR infections.

Antimicrobial Resistance.--The Committee continues to support advanced research and development of broad-
spectrum antimicrobials, particularly for multi-drug resistant pathogens, and next-generation therapeutics that
address the increasing incidence of antimicrobial resistance, including Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria
Biopharmaceutical Accelerator (CARB-X).

Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Threats.-- The Committee notes with concern the elevated risk
posed by chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) weapons across the globe and provides robust
funding for BARDA's core national security mission to protect Americans against these deliberate, man-made
threats. The Committee directs ASPR to provide, within 180 days of enactment of this Act, a report on the Rapid
Response Partnership Vehicle (RRPV). The Committee encourages ASPR and BARDA to engage more frequently
with private sector partners via the RRPV process to ensure adequate prioritization, timely development of new
MCMs and stockpiling of existing MCMs against CBRN threats.

Drug Resistant Tuberculosis.--Drug resistant TB is identified as a serious threat level pathogen to the U.S. by
CARB-X. As drug resistant TB cases are on the rise globally, the threat to the U.S. also grows and BARDA's
investment in new TB diagnostics, drugs, and vaccines is critical. The Committee directs ASPR to provide a briefing
on BARDA's investments in drug resistant diseases including TB within 180 days of the enactment of this Act.

Infectious Disease Outbreaks with Pandemic Potential.--The Committee supports robust funding for BARDA to
engage in public-private partnerships to support advanced research and development of innovative platform
technologies and medical countermeasure programs focused on vaccines, therapeutics, and other medical
countermeasures for emerging infectious diseases, including novel pathogens and viral families with pandemic
potential. The Committee encourages ASPR to prioritize the identification and development of promising
technologies that can be leveraged to address a range of future pathogens, including virus families with significant
pandemic potential.

Pathogen Reduction Technologies.--The Committee urges BARDA to continue investments in red blood cell
pathogen reduction technology to ensure the completion of urgently needed nucleic acid targeted pathogen
reduction technology to significantly improve red blood cell transfusion safety for all blood products in the nation's
blood supply.

Pharmaceutical Platform Technologies.--The Committee encourages BARDA to support the research,
development, and facilitation of pharmaceutical platform technologies. The Committee notes that platform
technologies supported by strong data production and computer power provide flexible systems for the discovery of
novel cures at a much faster rate and a lower cost than traditional pharmaceutical discovery processes across a

                                                                                              Page 3 of 7
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title II - HHS (Part 12 of ....

broad array of disease targets. Furthermore, the Committee recognizes the potential for machine learning, artificial
intelligence, and high throughput systems to improve the development of foundational models. The Committee
encourages BARDA to partner with domestic entities to bolster domestic capacity to respond to a variety of new
threats more efficiently in the future.

Radiological and Nuclear Threats.--The Committee supports BARDA's effort to develop MCMs effective against
radiological and nuclear threats and encourages BARDA to support innovative radioprotective technologies to
enhance the nation's preparedness and response capabilities by supporting the advancement of novel therapeutic
agents that mitigate the effects of radiation exposure.

Sustainable Blood Supply and National Blood Response Capability.--The Committee remains concerned regarding
the continued vulnerability of the blood supply after the peak COVID shortages and receiving the report from the
HHS Advisory Committee on Blood and Tissue Safety and Availability. That report indicated that, "the continued
availability of a robust blood supply faces significant threats and challenges in the current environment," and
recommended the "implementation of new technologies to improve the safety and reliability of the blood supply."
The Committee encourages BARDA to meet its strategic objective of developing next generation blood products by
including products that can be used regardless of the patient's blood group, expand availability to all hospitals,
prevent shortages, and are suitable for use throughout the continuum of care, including first responders. The
Committee encourages ASPR to rapidly expand the development of freeze-dried hemostatic products, especially
platelet- derived products, to include a wide range of indications encompassing treatment of hemorrhagic disease,
use in general surgery, obstetrics and trauma.

Strengthening Domestic Supply Chain Resiliency.--The Committee appreciates ASPR taking steps to strengthen
our nation's medical countermeasure enterprise, including through BioMaP and BARDA's Pharmaceutical
Countermeasures Infrastructure (PIC) Division, and supports efforts to expand domestic manufacturing
infrastructure for medical countermeasures. Given the global nature of certain clinical research, development, and
manufacturing activities, it is critical for BARDA to strengthen, expand, and make progress in onshoring these
programs. Within 180 days of enactment of this Act, ASPR is directed to brief the Committee on ASPR's fiscal year
2025 plans to support the onshoring of medical countermeasure development activities, including actions taken by
BioMAP and PIC.

Project BioShield The Committee provides $850,000,000 for Project BioShield, which is $25,000,000 above the
fiscal year 2024 enacted level and $30,000,000 above the fiscal year 2025 budget request. These funds support
the acquisition of promising medical countermeasures developed through BARDA contracts for the most serious
public health threats.

Strategic National Stockpile The Committee provides $1,000,000,000 for the Strategic National Stockpile, which is
$20,000,000 above the fiscal year 2024 enacted level and $35,000,000 above the fiscal year 2025 budget request.

Addressing Domestic Personal Protective Equipment Purchasing.--The Committee recognizes the COVID
pandemic highlighted both the vulnerability and necessity of maintaining a robust domestic supply of PPE. It is
critical the U.S. maintain a robust domestic production base. Doing so is vital for both the national security interests
and protection of public health in the face of international infectious disease threats. The Committee strongly
recommends ASPR allocate not less than 10 percent of the budget of the Strategic National Stockpile (SNS) for the
purchase of domestically manufactured personal protective equipment. In addition, the Committee directs ASPR to
submit a report within 90 days of enactment of this Act for all PPE purchases for the prior fiscal year and current
levels of each type of PPE in the SNS, including expiry dates.

The Committee includes a new provision prohibiting ASPR from purchasing MCMs from Chinese owned company.

Antimicrobial Resistance Class Review.--The Committee encourages the ASPR, in coordination with FDA and
CDC, to implement a review system to regularly assess the safety, efficacy, and vulnerability to antimicrobial
resistance of existing SNS assets that could be used to respond to CBRN and public health threats and to support

                                                                                              Page 4 of 7
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title II - HHS (Part 12 of ....

efforts to maintain an inventory of medical countermeasures appropriate to respond to the continued evolution of
antimicrobial resistant organisms.

Guidance to States.--The Committee recognizes that SNS focuses on chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear
threats, and therefore the Committee supports States' efforts to secure appropriate drugs, vaccines, and other
biological products, medical devices, and other medical supplies necessary to respond to a public health
emergency or a major disaster. The Committee recognizes the importance of guidance to States on how best to
establish, expand, procure, replenish, maintain, and manage their own State stockpile, while ensuring appropriate
collaboration with the SNS. ASPR is directed to provide a briefing to the committees of jurisdiction within 180 days
of enactment of this Act on guidance and technical assistance related to State stockpiles.

Influenza MCM Diversification.--The Committee remains concerned about the perennial threat of pandemic
influenza, which could be exacerbated by expiring antivirals in the Strategic National Stockpile. The Committee
strongly urges HHS to diversify and replenish its stockpile of emergency influenza antivirals to ensure the nation
has multiple current treatment options in the event of an influenza pandemic.

Pending Product Expiration.--The Committee directs ASPR to provide a report within 180 days of enactment of this
Act, regarding agency awareness, planning, and utilization of products that have expired or will expire within 18
months.

Persistent Procurement Challenges.--The Committee is concerned about the Strategic National Stockpile's
procurement process that has been mired by successful bid protests, repeated unanswered sources sought
notices, and misuse of sole source awards under GAO determined faulty pretexts. The Committee has invested in
efforts to bolster that nation's medical countermeasure preparedness against health security threats, especially for
those chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear countermeasures that lack a traditional marketplace. The
Committee directs ASPR to have an independent outside audit performed to improve the procurement process and
align strategic preparedness with CBRN threats. The Committee further directs ASPR to provide a briefing on the
implementation of this directive within 180 days of the enactment of this Act.

Poxvirus Countermeasures.--The Committee notes that Administration decisions, including the decision to ship
vaccine oversees, has depleted medical countermeasures that were previously developed, purchased, and
stockpiled for domestic smallpox preparedness. The Committee is concerned there may now be an insufficient
supply of poxvirus vaccine for immunocompromised individuals as well as poxvirus treatments in the stockpile,
especially considering the continued national security threat of an intentional or accidental release of smallpox.
Therefore, the Committee encourages ASPR to prioritize replenishment of medical countermeasures used during
the monkey pox outbreak and directs ASPR to provide a briefing within 90 days of the date of enactment of this Act
on the stockpiling requirements for poxvirus vaccine.

Shelf-Life Extension Program.--The Committee acknowledges the benefits of the Shelf-Life Extension Program
(SLEP) and takes into consideration public skepticism of certain countermeasures in the program. In the annual
SNS threat-based review, the Committee encourages ASPR to include the quantity of each countermeasure that is
beyond 10 years of the initial FDA expiration date and the number of these aged products in the SLEP program that
have no industry sponsor.

Security Countermeasures Modeling.--The Committee believes that robust quantitative modeling tools will help
ensure ASPR is addressing the most significant threats to national security and implementing the most impactful
and cost effective solutions. To build quantitative and economics analytics and modeling capabilities that effectively
evaluate medical countermeasure programs, the Committee directs ASPR to provide a detailed analysis of the
resources required and their potential deployment in the fiscal year 2026 congressional justification.

SNS Requirements.--The Committee notes with concern the Medical Countermeasure Preparedness Report,
submitted to Congress as part of the required annual threat based review of SNS, found that SNS has not
maintained adequate supplies of many medical countermeasures to reflect requirements established by PHEMCE.
In addition, GAO has recently upheld multiple bid protest decisions evidencing a concerning lack of quality control in

                                                                                              Page 5 of 7
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title II - HHS (Part 12 of ....

the contract solicitation and review process. Therefore, the Committee directs ASPR, within 180 days of the
enactment of this Act, to provide a report on processes put in place to better ensure adherence to all Federal
contracting requirements.

Thermal Radiation Burns.--The Committee notes ASPR has the responsibility of developing and procuring MCMs
for naturally occurring and intentional threat agents while ensuring that these are quickly available in the event of an
emergency, and that these threats include nuclear and radiological events. The Committee encourages ASPR to
ensure that an appropriate supply of these MCMs are available.

Warm Base Manufacturing for Diagnostics.--The Committee remains concerned the COVID pandemic has
demonstrated the need for warm base manufacturing to ensure access to necessary diagnostics in the event of a
future pandemic. The Committee encourages ASPR to continue to support the investments for testing, supply
chain, and surge capacity for U.S. diagnostic manufacturing to maintain U.S. readiness and future preparedness.
Further, the Committee encourages ASPR to promote policies for flexible contracting to improve public health.

Pandemic Influenza Preparedness The Committee includes $327,991,000, for the pandemic influenza
preparedness program. This funding supports efforts to modernize influenza research and development of vaccines
and preparedness testing and evaluation, as well as critical domestic vaccine manufacturing infrastructure.

The Committee encourages ASPR to support the development of pandemic influenza therapeutics and vaccines to
ensure a robust pipeline of influenza countermeasures.

OPERATIONS AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE

Appropriation, fiscal year 2024... $499,606,000

Budget request, fiscal year 2025... 685,097,000

Committee Recommendation... 352,606,000

Change from enacted level... -147,000,000

Change from budget request... -332,491,000 Office of Administration & Preparedness and Emergency Operations
The Committee includes $80,407,000 for activities within the Assistant Secretary's Immediate Office; the Office of
the Chief Operating Officer; the Office of Acquisitions Management, Contracts, and Grants; the Office of Financial
Planning and Analysis; and for Preparedness and Emergency Operations. The Preparedness and Emergency
Operations account also funds the Office of Emergency Management, which supports a full spectrum of emergency
management responsibilities, including planning, coordination, logistics, training, and responding to planned events
and unplanned incidents.

Addressing Emergency Medical Services Workforce Shortages and Readiness.--The Committee is keenly aware of
the significant challenges the emergency medical services (EMS) community faces. Across the Federal
government, there are a host of resources available to assist public, private, and nonprofit EMS agencies. Within
180 days of enactment of this Act, the Committee directs ASPR, in consultation with SAMHSA and the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, to provide an overview of its resources available to address EMS readiness
and workforce shortages; any actions taken to address EMS readiness and the workforce shortage; and
recommendations on what additional resources and authorities are necessary to support EMS and community
access to emergency healthcare services. Such overview shall be made available on the agency's website.

Healthcare and Public Health Sector Cybersecurity Performance Goals.--The Committee notes its significant
concerns with cybersecurity threats to the healthcare and public health sector and urges HHS to rapidly roll out its
proposed program to support the implementation of essential cybersecurity performance goals.

Supply Chain Control Tower.--The Committee recognizes the potential value of the Supply Chain Control Tower
(SCCT) program, a voluntary collaboration between industry partners and ASPR, to provide end-to-end visibility for

                                                                                              Page 6 of 7
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title II - HHS (Part 12 of ....

supply chain monitoring and readiness. In addition to providing insights for demand and supply forecasting, the
Committee encourages ASPR to coordinate with FDA and CDC to use SCCT to monitor the availability of a broader
list of essential health and medical products.

National Disaster Medical System The Committee provides $76,904,000 for the National Disaster Medical System
(NDMS). NDMS deploys trained medical, mortuary, and veterinarian teams to communities impacted by public
health and medical emergencies due to natural and manmade incidents. The Committee provides no funding for
next generation air equipment.

Mission Zero.--The Committee provides $4,000,000, for civilian trauma centers to train and incorporate military
trauma care providers and teams into care centers, the same as the fiscal year 2024 enacted level.

Pediatric Disaster Care.--The Committee provides $7,000,000 for the pediatric disaster care program, the same as
the fiscal year 2024 enacted level.

Hospital Preparedness Program The Committee provides $185,055,000 for the Hospital Preparedness Program
(HPP) formula grants, which is $120,000,000 below the fiscal year 2024 enacted level and $132,000,000 below the
fiscal year 2025 budget request. HPP supports a variety of programs to strengthen the preparedness and response
of the health care sector. Due to funding constraints, the Committee reduces funding for this program.

Emergency Medical Service Preparedness and Response.--The Committee encourages ASPR to clarify the extent
to which the hospital preparedness program can better integrate emergency medical service operations, including
both governmental and nongovernmental emergency medical services, into regional health care coalitions.

National Special Pathogen System.--The Committee provides $28,500,000 for the National Special Pathogen
System which is the same as the fiscal year 2024 enacted level.

National Emerging Special Pathogens Training and Education Center.--The Committee provides $7,500,000 for the
National Emerging Special Pathogens Training and Education Center.

Regional Emerging Special Pathogen Treatment Centers.--The Committee provides $21,000,000 for Regional
Emerging Special Pathogen Treatment Centers program and Special Pathogen Treatment Centers.

Medical Reserve Corps The Committee provides $6,240,000 for the Medical Reserve Corps, which is the same as
the fiscal year 2024 enacted level and the fiscal year 2025 budget request.

Preparedness and Response Innovation The Committee provides $4,000,000, which is the same as the fiscal year
2024 enacted level and $4,000,000 above the fiscal year 2025 budget request, for a bilateral cooperative program
with the Government of Israel for the development of health technologies.

In the fiscal year 2026 congressional justification the Committee requests an update on the investments this funding
has produced since the program's inception.

(Continues with Part 13 of 18)

***

The      report   is      posted     at:     https://www.congress.gov/congressional-report/118th-congress/house-
report/585/1?s=1&r=5

TARGETED NEWS SERVICE (founded 2004) features non-partisan 'edited journalism' news briefs and information
for news organizations, public policy groups and individuals; as well as 'gathered' public policy information,
including news releases, reports, speeches. For more information contact MYRON STRUCK, editor,
editor@targetednews.com, Springfield, Virginia; 703/304-1897; https://targetednews.com

                                                                                              Page 7 of 7
      House Appropriations Committee Issues Report on Departments of Labor, HHS & Education & Related
                        Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2025 - Title II - HHS (Part 12 of ....

-1747433


Load-Date: July 25, 2024


  
