

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 4
      Samsara Unveils New Solutions at Beyond '24 to Transform Physical Operations with Data, Insights, and
                         Action New offerings for assets, training, and automated w....




    Samsara Unveils New Solutions at Beyond '24 to Transform Physical
    Operations with Data, Insights, and Action; New offerings for assets,
training, and automated workflows are built to empower leaders who run the
                                    world
                                                   Business Wire
                                        June 27, 2024 Thursday 2:30 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1379 words
Dateline: CHICAGO

Body


Today, at its Beyond conference, Samsara Inc . ("Samsara") (NYSE: IOT), announced new products and solutions
built to empower the physical operations leaders who run the world. The conference, taking place June 26-28 in
Chicago, Illinois, gathers over 2,000 innovators across the industry, including Fortune 500 companies such as DHL,
Sysco, SLB, and more.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.             View        the      full     release       here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240627833330/en/

(Graphic: Business Wire)

"Our customers keep the world running. They have large, complex operations that are asset and labor-intensive,
and data and AI are helping them solve their unique challenges," said Sanjit Biswas, CEO and Co-Founder at
Samsara. "AI-driven insights are transforming our customers' operations, keeping their frontline workers safe and
saving their organizations millions of dollars. We are proud to partner with our customers to help them operate
smarter."

Serving tens of thousands of organizations across North America and Europe, the scale of Samsara's Connected
Operations(TM) Cloud is already contributing to dramatic improvements for customers and the communities they
serve. In one year alone, Samsara has helped prevent over 200,000 crashes, digitized 230 million workflows, and
reduced 3 billion pounds of CO2 emissions. Today, Samsara announced new innovations that further connect every
aspect of physical operations and fuel AI-powered insights to drive tangible results.

Create better, safer jobs for frontline workers

Samsara's customer feedback loop has allowed the company to maintain a rapid pace of innovation and iterate to
meet changing customer needs. Samsara has already launched several safety products to create better, safer jobs
for frontline workers. These include Virtual Coach, which helps drivers self-coach in the field, and new AI detections

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 4
        Samsara Unveils New Solutions at Beyond '24 to Transform Physical Operations with Data, Insights, and
                           Action New offerings for assets, training, and automated w....

currently rolling out to customers for Drowsiness, Forward Collisions, and Lane Departures, which alert drivers of
risky behavior in the moment.

Now, Samsara has launched new solutions to further this commitment to safety and efficiency:
    •      Connected Training: Despite being one of the most dangerous industries with millions of injuries each year,
           the transportation sector lacks modernized training methods that are customized and adaptable for their
           unique work environments. With Connected Training, customers can have a data-driven training
           experience designed for continuous, remote learning via the Samsara Driver App. Managers can upskill
           their workforce by consolidating all training within the Samsara platform and connecting with existing
           workflows for a seamless employee experience.
    •      Connected Workflows: Last year, Samsara introduced Connected Forms to digitize paper processes for
           physical operations. Today, the company announced a new product, Connected Workflows, which goes
           beyond form digitization to orchestrating multi-step workflows. Connected Workflows can automatically
           assign forms, manage approvals, and create tasks based on contextual insights, like entering a geofence
           or detecting a vehicle crash. Now every department - from operations to HR - can automate workflows to
           make work safer and easier for frontline employees and administrators.

NexTier Completion Solutions is the second-largest provider of well completion and production services in the U.S.,
including hydraulic fracturing, wireline operations, and oilfield logistics. As the organization experienced rapid
growth, it began to suffer from siloed systems and operational inefficiencies. With Samsara, they found a solution
that allowed them to improve safety performance with streamlined workflows and consolidate data into a single
platform.

"Automating critical workflows and building our safety checklist with Samsara has given us results that we could
only dream of," said Renee Merchant, DOT Fleet Systems Lead at NexTier. "Drivers not only complete the forms
faster, but the information is more accurate than ever before."

Connect every aspect of operations and drive results that matter

As sensors get more sophisticated, yet smaller and easier to install, the world of telematics has expanded. It's now
possible to connect virtually anything to the cloud, whether it's trailers, tools, or equipment.

Today, Samsara has launched the industry's first enterprise-grade Asset Tag built around this opportunity.
Samsara's Asset Tag was designed to meet customer demand for tracking and managing small, high-value assets.
It leverages the Samsara Network of millions of devices to help organizations minimize their downtime spent
searching for lost or stolen items, reduce associated costs, and simplify inventory management.

Samsara has also announced new next-generation Smart Trailer features to help customers run a safer, more
efficient trailer operation. For example, Trailer Telematics will allow fleets to diagnose anti-lock braking system
(ABS) issues and electrical power failures for the first time. As a result, they can optimize trailer maintenance, keep
drivers safe, and maintain high Compliance, Safety, Accountability (CSA) scores. In addition, new driver efficiency
tools from Samsara will help customers save time and reduce costs by minimizing manual errors and increasing
operational efficiency.

"We are helping our customers get data from every corner of their operations - from small assets to large
equipment to paperless workflows. More data means new insights to help customers improve their operations," said
Kiren Sekar, Chief Product Officer at Samsara. "Everything we announced today at Beyond will give our customers
additional tools to make the jobs of their frontline workers better and safer."

To learn more about these and other announcements made at Beyond '24, visit the Samsara blog here .

Continued innovation for the future

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 4
     Samsara Unveils New Solutions at Beyond '24 to Transform Physical Operations with Data, Insights, and
                        Action New offerings for assets, training, and automated w....

Samsara's technology is used by many organizations that provide emergency response services across public
safety, utilities, disaster recovery, and more. To ensure first responders are deployed efficiently during an
emergency, these organizations rely on FirstNet®, Built with AT&T - the only nationwide communications network
created with and for public safety.

Samsara is now FirstNet Trusted(TM) meaning the company's Vehicle Gateway has gone through extensive
cybersecurity testing and is certified for use on the FirstNet network. As a result, public safety customers can
leverage near real-time routing and dispatch insights from Samsara to further inform response decisions during
critical times, when every second counts.

Customer momentum across geographies and industries

Samsara also recently announced the winners of its 2024 Connected Operations Awards . These awards honor
organizations that use data-driven insights from Samsara's platform to achieve tangible outcomes across safety,
efficiency, sustainability, physical security, digital transformation, and more. This year's winners include: Estes ,
Primoris Services Corporation , and The Memphis Light, Gas and Water Division , among others.

Follow Beyond '24 news and developments on Samsara's LinkedIn and X pages, or by using the #SamsaraBeyond
hashtag.

About Samsara

Samsara (NYSE: IOT) is the pioneer of the Connected Operations(TM) Cloud, which is a platform that enables
organizations that depend on physical operations to harness Internet of Things (IoT) data to develop actionable
insights and improve their operations. With tens of thousands of customers across North America and Europe,
Samsara is a proud technology partner to the people who keep our global economy running, including the world's
leading organizations across construction, transportation and warehousing, field services, manufacturing, retail,
logistics, and the public sector. The company's mission is to increase the safety, efficiency, and sustainability of the
operations that power the global economy.

Samsara is a registered trademark of Samsara Inc. All other brand names, product names or trademarks belong to
their respective holders.

FirstNet and the FirstNet logo are registered trademarks and service marks of the First Responder Network
Authority. All other marks are the property of their respective owners.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240627833330/en/


CONTACT: Andie Rodriguez
Samsara

media@samsara.com


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


(Graphic: Business Wire)

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 4
     Samsara Unveils New Solutions at Beyond '24 to Transform Physical Operations with Data, Insights, and
                        Action New offerings for assets, training, and automated w....


Load-Date: June 27, 2024


  
