

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
     Planet Signs Seven-Figure Expansion with US -allied Government Agency for SkySat High Resolution Data




Planet Signs Seven-Figure Expansion with US-allied Government Agency for
                       SkySat High Resolution Data
                                                    Business Wire
                                         July 22, 2024 Monday 1:07 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 457 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO

Body


Planet Labs PBC (NYSE: PL), a leading provider of daily data and insights about Earth, today announced that it has
signed a seven-figure contract expansion with a US-allied International Government Agency for SkySat high
resolution satellite data.

"Global customer demand for high resolution satellite data continues to grow, fueled by heightened security needs
and increased climate disaster risk," said Will Marshall, Planet's Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder. "Our
SkySat fleet provides organizations with a powerful combination of high frequency, low latency, high resolution
data, enabling greater understanding of critical events around the world."

Planet's SkySat fleet offers multiple revisits per day of anyplace on the globe with up to 50 centimeter resolution
imagery. Over time SkySats will be replenished with Planet's next-generation high-resolution fleet, Pelican, which is
designed to further increase revisit rates and image resolution, while also reducing latency and speeding customer
time to insights. The first Pelican tech demo, launched in November 2023, continues to perform well.

"The ability to enable considerably faster alerting of various types of events around the world has the potential to
unlock entirely new use cases for customers," Will Marshall added.

Additionally, last month Planet announced that it is collaborating with NVIDIA on its onboard processing capabilities
for its high-resolution Pelican-2 satellite. Through this collaboration, Planet will leverage the NVIDIA Jetson edge AI
platform for its next-generation high-resolution mission and fly the technology on its Pelican-2 satellite, set to launch
later this year. Leveraging recent advances in AI, Planet expects this collaboration to support shorter time to value
for customers across government and commercial markets.

About Planet

Planet is a leading provider of global, daily satellite imagery and geospatial solutions. Planet is driven by a mission
to image the world every day, and make change visible, accessible and actionable. Founded in 2010 by three
NASA scientists, Planet designs, builds, and operates the largest Earth observation fleet of imaging satellites.
Planet provides mission-critical data, advanced insights, and software solutions to over 1,000 customers,
comprising the world's leading agriculture, forestry, intelligence, education and finance companies and government
agencies, enabling users to simply and effectively derive unique value from satellite imagery. Planet is a public

                                                                                               Page 2 of 2
   Planet Signs Seven-Figure Expansion with US -allied Government Agency for SkySat High Resolution Data

benefit corporation listed on the New York Stock Exchange as PL. To learn more visit www.planet.com and follow
us on X (formerly Twitter).

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240722299470/en/


CONTACT: Planet Press
Claire Bentley Dale

comms@planet.com Planet Investor Relations
Chris Genualdi, Cleo Palmer-Poroner

ir@planet.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 23, 2024


  
