

                                                                                             Page 1 of 3
     HYCU® Named a Visionary in the 2024 Gartner ® Magic Quadrant™ for Enterprise Backup and Recovery
                                           Software Solutions




      HYCU® Named a Visionary in the 2024 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for
            Enterprise Backup and Recovery Software Solutions
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                              August 8, 2024 Thursday 8:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT; OTHER NEWS; RESEARCH ANALYSIS AND REPORTS; PRESS
RELEASES
Length: 1038 words

Body

Boston, Massachusetts, Aug. 08, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- HYCU, Inc., a leader for modern data protection
for on-prem, cloud services, and SaaS, and one of the fastest growing companies in the industry, today announced
that it has been named a Visionary in the 2024 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Enterprise Backup and Recovery
Software Solutions. The company was named a Visionary for the third consecutive year in this report.

"We believe, being recognized as a Visionary in this year’s Gartner Magic Quadrant for Enterprise Backup and
Recovery Solutions is a testament to HYCU's unwavering commitment to innovation in the rapidly evolving
landscape of data protection," said Simon Taylor, Founder and CEO, HYCU, Inc. "We feel this recognition
underscores the critical importance of our R-Cloud platform in addressing the complex backup and recovery needs
across hybrid and multi-cloud and SaaS environments.”

HYCU R-Cloud is an award-winning, integrated SaaS platform that offers enterprise class automated backup,
granular recovery, data migration, and disaster recovery across on-premises, multi-cloud platforms, cloud services,
and SaaS applications. R-Cloud is delivered as a true cloud-native SaaS solution. A key component of HYCU R-
Cloud is HYCU R-Graph. R-Graph provides data estate discovery and visualization, supporting more than 70 data
sources across IaaS, DBaaS, PaaS, and SaaS.

“Our extensive support for cloud services, coupled with the enhanced visibility provided by R-Graph, demonstrates
our dedication to empowering organizations to protect their entire modern data estate,” said Subbiah Sundaram
SVP, Product, HYCU, Inc. “In addition, our use of generative AI to accelerate the development of data protection
modules for new SaaS and PaaS workloads highlights our pioneering and forward-thinking approach. All of us at
HYCU are excited by this acknowledgment that reaffirms our mission to provide easy-to-use, automated, and

                                                                                              Page 2 of 3
      HYCU® Named a Visionary in the 2024 Gartner ® Magic Quadrant™ for Enterprise Backup and Recovery
                                            Software Solutions

cutting-edge solutions that not only meet but anticipate the data protection challenges of today's complex and
diverse dynamic IT landscapes."

During the evaluation period, HYCU introduced several key innovations, including:
      •   Broader Cloud Support: HYCU expanded coverage of AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, and SaaS Services
          with the addition of instant data and configuration restores for multiple AWS Services, including Amazon
          Aurora, AWS IAM, Amazon DynamoDB and AWS Lambda. In addition, HYCU expanded coverage for
          Google AlloyDB, Google BigQuery, Google CloudSQL, Google Cloud AppEngine, Google Cloud Artifacts,
          Google Cloud Functions, Google Cloud Run, as well as Azure Compute, Azure Gov Cloud, Nutanix NC2
          on AWS, and Nutanix NC2 on Azure.
      •   Broader SaaS Integration Support: HYCU added SaaS application support including Asana, Atlassian
          Confluence, Atlassian Jira Service Management, Atlassian Jira Asset Management, Atlassian Jira Config
          Management, Atlassian Jira Software, Atlassian Jira Work Management, Atlassian Product Discovery,
          Atlassian Trello, ClickUp, Docusign, GitHub, GitLab, Google Workspace, Microsoft 365, Miro,
          monday.com, Notion, Okta CIAM, Okta Workforce Identity Cloud, Salesforce, Typeform, Terraform, and
          others to make it possible to protect modern applications and associated microservices from initial design
          throughout the application lifecycle.
      •   Advancements with HYCU R-Graph: HYCU introduced several new capabilities to R-Graph, including
          customizable view options and insights to native application protection capabilities, supporting many of the
          leading PaaS, IaaS, DBaaS, and SaaS data sources.
      •   HYCU Generative AI Initiative: In January 2024, HYCU made HYCU R-Cloud easy to extend to new data
          sources to help protect data at scale and to help cover new data sources efficiently by integrating
          Anthropics' AI assistant Claude with R-Cloud. This initiative redefined the development process of data
          protection integrations and allowed development partners to create SaaS integrations easily and efficiently.
          This innovation also reduced the time to build new data protection modules from months to hours.

To access a complimentary copy of the full Gartner Magic Quadrant for Enterprise Backup and Recovery Software
Solutions, please visit here.

For more information on HYCU, visit:www.hycu.com, follow us on X (formerly Twitter), connect with us on LinkedIn,
Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube. To learn more about HYCU R-Cloud, visit tryhycu.com.

Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Enterprise Backup and Recovery Software Solutions, By Michael Hoeck, Jason
Donham, Rene Rodriguez, Chandra Mukhyala, August 5, 2024.

GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and
internationally, and MAGIC QUADRANT is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates and are used
herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its
research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or
other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and
should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect
to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

###

About HYCU HYCU is the fastest-growing leader in the multi-cloud and SaaS data protection as a service industry.
By bringing true SaaS-based data backup and recovery to on-premises, cloud-native and SaaS environments, the
company provides unparalleled data protection, migration, disaster recovery, and ransomware protection to
thousands of companies worldwide. As an award-winning and recognized visionary in the industry, HYCU solutions
eliminate complexity, risk, and the high cost of legacy-based solutions, providing data protection simplicity to make
the world safer. With an industry leading NPS score of 91, customers experience frictionless, cost-effective data

                                                                                            Page 3 of 3
    HYCU® Named a Visionary in the 2024 Gartner ® Magic Quadrant™ for Enterprise Backup and Recovery
                                          Software Solutions

protection, anywhere, everywhere. HYCU has raised $140M in VC funding to date and is based in Boston, Mass.
Learn more at www.hycu.com.
Don Jennings HYCU, Inc. 617-791-1710 don.jennings@hycu.com



Load-Date: August 8, 2024


  
