

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
  CloudCasa by Catalogic Announces Partnership with IONOS Cloud for Kubernetes Data Protection CloudCasa
                         delivers enhanced cloud-native data protection, migration....




  CloudCasa by Catalogic Announces Partnership with IONOS Cloud for
Kubernetes Data Protection; CloudCasa delivers enhanced cloud-native data
  protection, migration, and disaster recovery solutions for IONOS Cloud
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                               July 16, 2024 Tuesday 5:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: BUSINESS CONTRACTS; COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT; OTHER NEWS; PARTNERSHIPS; PRESS
RELEASES
Length: 603 words

Body

Paramus, NJ, July 16, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- CloudCasa by Catalogic, a leading provider of powerful,
easy-to-use cloud-native backup, recovery and migration solutions, is excited to announce a strategic partnership
with IONOS, a leading European digitalization partner for small and medium-sized businesses. This collaboration
aims to deliver enhanced Kubernetes data protection, migration, and disaster recovery solutions for IONOS Cloud
platform users, ensuring their cloud-native applications are safeguarded against data loss and cyber threats.

Under this partnership, CloudCasa will integrate its state-of-the-art cloud data protection and migration service with
the robust and scalable cloud infrastructure of IONOS. The partnership offers users seamless, automated backup,
recovery, migration and replication for Kubernetes and cloud-native applications, providing an unmatched level of
security and reliability.

"We are thrilled to partner with IONOS," said Ryan Kaw, VP of Sales for CloudCasa by Catalogic. "Our mission is to
provide comprehensive and intuitive data protection solutions that address the unique needs of cloud-native
environments. By joining forces with IONOS, we can offer their users unparalleled protection and peace of mind,
knowing their critical data and applications are secure and recoverable."

This partnership will provide IONOS Cloud users with several key benefits:
    •     Enhanced Data Protection and Disaster Recovery: Advanced backup and recovery options tailored for
          Kubernetes environments, ensuring that data is safe from accidental deletion, corruption, and cyber
          threats.

                                                                                               Page 2 of 2
  CloudCasa by Catalogic Announces Partnership with IONOS Cloud for Kubernetes Data Protection CloudCasa
                         delivers enhanced cloud-native data protection, migration....

    •   Scalability and Flexibility: Seamless integration with IONOS Cloud's infrastructure, allowing users to
        scale their data protection as their business grows.
    •   Migration/Replication: Reliable data movement solutions that ensure smooth migration and replication
        processes, enhancing Kubernetes flexibility and continuity.
    •   Simplified Management: A user-friendly interface that simplifies the management of backup and recovery
        tasks, reducing the administrative burden on IT teams.
    •   Cost Efficiency: Cost-effective solutions that optimize storage usage and reduce overall data protection
        costs.

As organizations continue to migrate to cloud-native environments, the combined expertise of CloudCasa by
Catalogic and IONOS will provide the required tools to safeguard their data, ensure business continuity, and
enhance their cybersecurity posture.

For more information about the partnership and how it can benefit your organization, please visit CloudCasa by
Catalogic and IONOS.



###

About CloudCasa by Catalogic

CloudCasa by Catalogic is a leading provider of cloud-native backup, recovery and migration solutions. Designed to
protect Kubernetes, cloud databases, and cloud-native applications, CloudCasa delivers powerful, easy-to-use data
protection that ensures business continuity and compliance. Learn more at www.cloudcasa.io



About IONOS

IONOS is the leading European digitalization partner for small and medium-sized businesses, serving over six
million customers and has a presence in 18 markets across North America and Europe, with its services being
accessible worldwide. Its web presence and productivity portfolio caters to all digitalization needs, providing
domains, web hosting, website builders with AI capabilities, as well as eCommerce and online marketing tools. The
company also offers cloud solutions for businesses looking to move their operations to the cloud as they expand
and develop.


Joanne Hogue Smart Connections PR for CloudCasa     +1 (410) 658-8246   joanne@smartconnectionspr.com



Load-Date: July 16, 2024


  
