

                                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
                                Let's throw cold water on the Musk working for Trump thing




              Let's throw cold water on the Musk working for Trump thing
                                                        CNN Wire
                                         August 21, 2024 Wednesday 9:30 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved

Length: 786 words
Byline: Analysis by Allison Morrow, CNN
Dateline: (CNN)

Body


       New York (CNN) - Let's just get this out of the way: Elon Musk is almost certainly not going to work for a
Donald Trump administration.

Anything's possible, of course, in a Trump 2.0 White House. But to take on any major role in that administration,
Musk would have a mountain of conflicts of interest to climb.

By law (and by common sense), you can't work on government matters that would affect your own personal
finances. That's a big problem for someone like Musk, whose $245 billion fortune is largely tied up in shares of
Tesla, SpaceX and X (formerly Twitter), along with his holdings in the fields of biotech, artificial intelligence,
satellite communications and road infrastructure projects.

Typically, people entering public office remedy that problem by divesting their stocks and other holdings or by
putting them in a blind trust. But Musk, the CEO and single largest shareholder of Tesla, can't just sell his stake
without causing the price to collapse. And given the scope of his business interests, it's hard to see where he could
serve without having to recuse himself regularly.

"Much would depend on what the job is and how it relates to his economic interest," said Richard Briffault, a
professor at Columbia Law School. "Is there anything that wouldn't relate to his economic interests? I'm not sure
what that would be."

Still, the MAGA odd couple of Musk and Trump is clearly having fun teasing at the idea of a Secretary Musk. On
Monday, Trump told Reuters that he would consider naming Musk to an advisory or Cabinet role if reelected in
November.

"He's a very smart guy. I certainly would, if he would do it, I certainly would. He's a brilliant guy," Trump said.

Musk didn't respond directly to that comment, but he posted on X that he is "willing to serve." That statement was
posted in Muskian fashion, over a doctored image of himself standing at a lectern labeled "D.O.G.E. Department of
Government Efficiency," a reference to the crypto meme token. So make of that what you will.

                                                                                                           Page 2 of 2
                             Let's throw cold water on the Musk working for Trump thing

Musk, who rarely speaks directly to the press, didn't immediately respond to CNN's request for comment. The
Trump campaign didn't immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.

The chatter about Musk taking a DC gig intensified last month after he publicly endorsed Trump, and again after the
two alluded to the possibility during a glitchy, rambling interview on X last week.

There are many reasons to take all of this speculation with a grain of salt. Not least: They both tend to lie and
exaggerate to keep their names in the headlines.

But just as a thought experiment, let's say they were serious and that Musk would actually want to serve in public
office.

"The biggest hurdle for Musk would be to obtain Senate approval, as all Cabinet officers must do," said Alan
Morrison, a professor at George Washington University Law School. "Depending on the position, the Senate might
well insist that he divest himself of specific securities" - including but not limited to Tesla, if he went to the
Transportation Department, or SpaceX if he went to the Defense Department.

He wouldn't be the first executive to go through that process.

Before becoming George W. Bush's Treasury secretary in 2006, former Goldman Sachs president Henry Paulson
sold more than 3 million shares of the bank, valued at nearly $500 million, and vowed to recuse himself from any
substantive issues relating to the institution or its executives without an explicit waiver from the government. (That
got pretty hard to do when the financial system nearly collapsed two years later, of course.)

Beyond the legal and ethical quagmire Musk would face in DC, the bigger opposition might come from Wall Street.

Musk may be the wealthiest person on the planet, but if there's one thing he can't afford, it's another job title.

Tesla shareholders are already rather annoyed by the CEO's extracurricular activities, especially all the time he
spends tweeting memes and conspiracy theories on X, the platform he spent $44 billion on two years ago and
which is now worth less than half of that (by Musk's own estimation).

"Musk potentially being offered a Cabinet position in a Trump White House would be a disaster scenario Tesla
investors would not want to see," said Dan Ives, managing director of Wedbush Securities. "Musk needs to be
focused on Tesla ... The last thing the Street wants to see is Elon side by side with Trump in the Oval Office."

Asked about how likely such he thinks such a scenario would be, Ives said the idea "feels far-fetched. But it's
Trump and Musk, so anything is possible."

        Analysis by Allison Morrow, CNN

TM & © 2024 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Load-Date: August 21, 2024


  
