

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
     CAPE Analytics and Vexcel Enter Strategic Imagery Partnership to Enhance CAPE's AI-Powered Property
                                             Intelligence Products




 CAPE Analytics and Vexcel Enter Strategic Imagery Partnership to Enhance
           CAPE's AI-Powered Property Intelligence Products
                                                           PR Newswire
                                            June 18, 2024 Tuesday 12:00 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 880 words
Dateline: PALO ALTO, Calif. and CENTENNIAL, Colo., June 18, 2024

Body


PR NewswireNew partnership with Vexcel Data Program increases CAPE's coverage to over 99% of U.S.
households and adds access to post-disaster imagery.PALO ALTO, Calif. and CENTENNIAL, Colo., June 18, 2024
/PRNewswire/ -- Today, CAPE Analytics, the leader in AI-powered property insights for insurance and real estate
risk, and Vexcel, the global leader in aerial imaging, are announcing an expansive new partnership. The new
partnership provides CAPE with aerial imagery at a resolution, accuracy, coverage, and recency to boost its
property insights and expand its product footprint in the United States, Canada, and Australia.

 For the last decade, CAPE Analytics has pioneered predictive property risk insights now relied upon by over 80
enterprise clients, including most of the top 30 homeowners insurance carriers in the U.S., and the largest
investment banks in the world. CAPE generates and instantly delivers 80+ powerful property analytics at massive
scale, with insights ranging from current roof condition, roof age, and living area to hail and wildfire risk scores.
These insights allow insurance carriers, financial institutions, and home and business owners to understand,
manage, and mitigate property-level risk with unprecedented granularity. CAPE's use of Vexcel's high-resolution
orthomosaic imagery furthers the company's mission to provide clients with the most comprehensive, timely, and
reliable property risk analytics available anywhere.Vexcel's aerial imagery library covers 99.6% of the U.S.
population and includes over 127 million households. The company refreshes its aerial imagery in urban areas up
to three times per year in the U.S. In 2024, Vexcel is on track to capture 4.4 million square kilometers in the U.S.,
refreshing imagery for 93% of the U.S. population. Vexcel also regularly collects and updates aerial imagery in
urban areas of Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. With such a vast imagery library, the partnership will over time
expand CAPE's geographic scope to new states, like Hawaii, rural areas in the U.S., and new countries, such as
New Zealand. Within days of major weather events impacting properties, CAPE will also provide clients with options
for accessing Vexcel's post-disaster Gray Sky imagery and associated analytics from CAPE."CAPE Analytics'
long-term partnership with Vexcel marks a transformative step in enhancing our market-leading property
intelligence solutions. Powered by Vexcel's extensive imagery coverage, CAPE will continue to deliver the most
precise, reliable, and up-to-date property risk analytics available," said Ryan Kottenstette, CEO of CAPE Analytics.
"We look forward to this partnership bringing significant value to insurance carriers and real estate
stakeholders.""Over the past few years, we've significantly expanded our aerial imagery programs in the U.S. and
around the globe. We are thrilled to announce our partnership with CAPE Analytics and look forward to seeing how
our best-in-class imagery will enable and enhance their innovative property analytics across multiple countries,"

                                                                                              Page 2 of 2
    CAPE Analytics and Vexcel Enter Strategic Imagery Partnership to Enhance CAPE's AI-Powered Property
                                            Intelligence Products

said Erik Jorgensen, CEO of Vexcel. Vexcel ensures high quality in its Data Program by managing every pixel
collected. This includes using its own market-leading cameras, a dedicated fleet of aircraft, and a world-class
imagery processing pipeline. Its high-resolution imagery is consistent across collection areas and is calibrated
against ground control points to achieve mapping-grade accuracy. These features and many more make Vexcel's
imagery highly optimized for AI and property analysis.About CAPE AnalyticsCAPE Analytics provides AI-
powered, geospatial property intelligence for buildings across the United States, Canada, and Australia. CAPE
enables residential and commercial property stakeholders, including insurance carriers and financial institutions, to
access valuable and predictive property insights and risk scores instantly. CAPE property intelligence offers the
accuracy and detail that typically require an on-site inspection but with unparalleled immediacy and coverage.
Founded in 2014, CAPE Analytics is backed by leading venture capital firms and insurers and is led by machine
learning, data infrastructure, and property risk experts.Learn more atwww.capeanalytics.comAbout VexcelFor over
30 years, Vexcel has been the industry leader in the photogrammetric and remote sensing space, building market-
leading UltraCam sensors, and providing a comprehensive library of cloud-based geospatial data. The Vexcel Data
Program is the largest and most accurate aerial imagery program in the world, collecting high-resolution imagery
and location intelligence in 40+ countries. Its dedicated fleet of fixed-wing aircraft capture imagery in the U.S., UK,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and across Western Europe. Its comprehensive aerial data library better
informs and helps a variety of industries, such as Government, Telecom, Utilities, Insurance, AEC, Energy,
Technology, HD Mapping, and more.More at:www.vexceldata.com.                     View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cape-analytics-and-vexcel-enter-strategic-imagery-
partnership-to-enhance-capes-ai-powered-property-intelligence-products-302175686.htmlSOURCE Vexcel Data
Program


Load-Date: July 15, 2024


  
