

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
        FalconStor Software Announces Second Quarter of 2024 Results Continued Hybrid Cloud ARR Run-Rate
                                                    Growth




FalconStor Software Announces Second Quarter of 2024 Results; Continued
                   Hybrid Cloud ARR Run-Rate Growth
                                                     Business Wire
                                       August 7, 2024 Wednesday 8:30 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 807 words
Dateline: AUSTIN, Texas

Body

FalconStor Software, Inc. (OTCMarkets.com: FALC), a trusted data protection leader modernizing disaster
recovery and backup for the hybrid cloud world, today announced financial results for its second quarter of 2024,
which ended on June 30, 2024.

"In Q2, we continued to effectively manage operating expenses and bolster our cash position, while we once again
grew hybrid cloud ARR run-rate by over 100% compared to Q2 2023," said Todd Brooks, CEO of FalconStor. "Our
growth is fueled by the expansion of FalconStor's data protection and migration technology across the IBM global
ecosystem, spanning on-premises, cloud, and MSP segments of the IBM Power customer base. Additionally, Q2
marked the go-to-market expansion of FalconStor technology into AI, as we completed certification of StorSafe and
StorGuard integration with IBM Storage Ceph, IBM's on-premises AI data lake solution. We are excited by the
continued strength of our partnership with IBM."

Second Quarter 2024 Financial Results
    •      Hybrid Cloud ARR Run-Rate: 112% increase year-over-year
    •      Ending Cash: $2.5 million, compared to $1.3 million in the Second Quarter of fiscal year 2023
    •      Total Revenue: $2.4 million, compared to $2.4 million in the Second Quarter of fiscal year 2023
    •      Total Cost of Revenue: $0.4 million, compared to $0.4 million in the Second Quarter of fiscal year 2023
    •      Total Operating Expenses: $2.0 million, compared to $2.2 million in the Second Quarter of fiscal year 2023
    •      Non-GAAP EBITDA: $0.11 million, compared to $(0.05) million in the Second Quarter of fiscal year 2023
    •      GAAP Net Income (Loss): $(0.03) million, $(0.46) million in the Second Quarter of fiscal year 2023

"Our focus remains on operating efficiency and alignment with the industry's adoption of hybrid cloud solutions. We
are committed to further enhancing our financial performance as we pursue ongoing growth and innovation," said
Vincent Sita, FalconStor CFO.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

                                                                                              Page 2 of 3
     FalconStor Software Announces Second Quarter of 2024 Results Continued Hybrid Cloud ARR Run-Rate
                                                 Growth

The non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are not prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.
The Company's management refers to these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because
they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operating performance. In addition,
these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical
operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results. We include these non-GAAP financial
measures (which should be viewed as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, their comparable GAAP measures)
in this press release because we believe they are useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency into the
supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. The non-GAAP
financial measures exclude (i) depreciation, (ii) amortization, (iii) restructuring expenses, (iv) severance expenses,
(v) board expenses, (vi) stock based compensation, (vii) non-operating expenses (income) including income taxes
and interest & other expenses (income). For a reconciliation of our GAAP and non-GAAP financial results, please
refer to our Reconciliation of Net Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA presented in this release.

Please click this link to see the accompanying financial charts.

About FalconStor Software

FalconStor is the trusted data protection software leader modernizing disaster recovery and backup operations for
the hybrid cloud world. The Company enables enterprise customers and managed service providers to secure,
migrate, and protect their data while reducing data storage and long-term retention costs by up to 95%. More than
1,000 organizations and managed service providers worldwide standardize on FalconStor as the foundation for
their cloud first data protection future. Our products are offered through and supported by a worldwide network of
leading managed service providers, system integrators, resellers, and original equipment manufacturers.

FalconStor and FalconStor Software are trademarks or registered trademarks of FalconStor Software, Inc., in the
U.S. and other countries. All other company and product names contained herein may be trademarks of their
respective holders.

Links to websites or pages controlled by parties other than FalconStor are provided for the reader's convenience
and information only. FalconStor does not incorporate into this release the information found at those links nor does
FalconStor represent or warrant that any information found at those links is complete or accurate. Use of
information obtained by following these links is at the reader's own risk.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240807254868/en/


CONTACT: CONTACT INFORMATION
For more information, contact:
Vincent Sita
Chief Financial Officer
FalconStor Software Inc.

investorrelations@falconstor.com CONTACT US AROUND THE GLOBE

Corporate Headquarters
111 Congress Avenue
Suite 500
Austin, Texas 78701
Tel: +1.631.777.5188

salesinfo@falconstor.com

                                                                                             Page 3 of 3
    FalconStor Software Announces Second Quarter of 2024 Results Continued Hybrid Cloud ARR Run-Rate
                                                Growth

Europe Headquarters
GERMANY
Landsberger Straße 302
80687 München, Germany

salesemea@falconstor.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: August 7, 2024


  
