

                                                                                  Page 1 of 6
          REP. RASHIDA TLAIB: I LIVE FOR THESE MOMENTS FOR OUR COMMUNITY JUNE 30, 2024




REP. RASHIDA TLAIB: I LIVE FOR THESE MOMENTS FOR OUR COMMUNITY
                            JUNE 30, 2024
                                               States News Service
                                              June 30, 2024 Sunday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2615 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the office of Michigan Rep. Rashida Tlaib:

Thank you for reading this important e-newsletter. To ensure you are getting updates from our office, please click
here to subscribe. If you are already subscribed, please click here to ensure we have your updated information.

I Live for These Moments for Our Community

Dear Neighbor,

Weeks like these where we see our work come to life inspires me to work harder. We are delivering for our
communities! From lead pipe replacement to helping families recover from flooding to wellness centers for our
seasoned residents, we are working hard to ensure that we invest in thriving communities in every corner of our
district.

It was also a week of celebration. We came together for Juneteenth events, honored Tuskegee Airman Lt. Col.
Alexander Jefferson, congratulated our Congressional App Challenge winner, and so much more.

I hope you enjoy reading about our big wins this week.

Yours in Service,

Rashida Tlaib

Member of Congress

Direct Funding for Our Communities: Community Projects

After the Storm Flood Relief

Many families are struggling to find resources for basement flood clean ups and other critical needs after a weather
disaster. This is why we were proud to secure $1,000,000 for After the Storm for the Metro Detroit Flood Recovery

                                                                                 Page 2 of 6
         REP. RASHIDA TLAIB: I LIVE FOR THESE MOMENTS FOR OUR COMMUNITY JUNE 30, 2024

Project. This funding will be used for housing rehabilitation, repairs, and recovery support for low-income and
vulnerable households affected by floods. Helping our hardest-hit neighbors recover and rebuild their homes is an
essential step towards restoring our most vulnerable neighborhoods.

Congresswoman Tlaib Presenting Community Project Funding to After the Storm.

Lead Pipe Replacement in Beverly Hills

I was proud to present $959,752 to the Village of Beverly Hills at their village council meeting for the construction of
a new water main and lead service line removal, ensuring more reliable and safer drinking water for our residents.
This is a vital investment in public health, protecting our community from the risks associated with lead in drinking
water.

Congresswoman Tlaib Presenting Community Project Funding at the Beverly Hills Council Meeting.

Inkster's New Fire Engine and Ambulance

The City of Inkster is getting a new fire fighting truck! We delivered the $1,000,000 to replace damaged equipment
and enhance emergency services for Inkster and surrounding communities. Investing in this infrastructure is critical,
as Inkster plays a key role in providing mutual aid for emergencies.

Congresswoman Tlaib Presenting Community Project Funding to The City of Inkster Fire Department.

Dearborn Heights Fire Department Enhancements

Our office presented $500,000 to the City of Dearborn Heights for a new fire station. The funding will enhance the
physical condition of the station, ensuring a safe and secure work environment for our firefighters. Investing in our
local fire services is crucial, as it boosts their capacity to serve our community effectively.

Congresswoman Tlaib Presenting Community Project Funding to the Dearborn Heights Fire Department.

Livonia Senior Wellness Center

The City of Livonia is getting a new center for our seasoned residents in Wayne County. My team and I were able to
secure $1.25M in federal funding. This new amenity will enhance the quality of life for our seasoned residents and
serve as an assessible resource in our community.

Congresswoman Tlaib Presenting Community Project Funding for the Livonia Senior Wellness Center.

Out in the District

Celebrating Juneteenth with our Black Neighbors

The 12th Congressional District knows how to celebrate Juneteenth! The Black Churches for Digital Equity held
their historic gathering in our district highlighting the need to bridge the digital divide. The Federal Affordable
Connectivity Program has helped over 130,000 households in our district, reducing broadband costs by over $70
million dollars. I will continue working to pass the Affordable Connectivity Program Extension Act to renew this vital
program.

It was also a joy to attend the Wayne County Metroparks Juneteenth Celebration. It is important that we not only
honor our Black neighbors but recommit to fighting for reparations, voting rights, ending police brutality, investing in
Black maternal health, HBCUs and so much more.

I also co-led a Juneteenth Resolution, H.Res. 1309, to honor, preserve, and invest in the historic Freedmen's
Settlements, which were an integral part of Black Americans' resilience after abolition. These vibrant communities,
founded by freed enslaved African Americans, hold an important history that deserves recognition and protection.

                                                                                 Page 3 of 6
         REP. RASHIDA TLAIB: I LIVE FOR THESE MOMENTS FOR OUR COMMUNITY JUNE 30, 2024

You can read more about the bill here.

You can watch my speech honoring Juneteenth on the House floor here.

Congresswoman Tlaib Celebrating Juneteenth in 12th District Strong.

New Housing is Coming!

We broke ground for the Dr. Violet T. Lewis Village in Detroit which will create over 100 affordable housing units for
our families. Naming it after the legendary Dr. Violet T. Lewis, who founded our state's first and only HBCU, was a
perfect way to honor her work and continue her legacy.

Congresswoman Tlaib at the Dr. Violet T. Lewis Village Groundbreaking.

Congratulations to Our Congressional App Challenge Winner!

Meet our Congressional App Challenge winner, Hasan Tai! His app, CyberVerse, educates users about
cybersecurity, offering courses, news updates, and an AI chatbot, and is a valuable tool for learning and staying
safe online. Hasan's dedication to preparing others for the future of technology is commendable, and I am excited
to see the impact his app will have.

Congresswoman Tlaib with our Congressional App Challenge Winner.

Samaritas World Refugee Celebration

Attending the Samaritas World Refugee Day Celebration was truly an honor. It brought together refugee families,
community leaders, and partners to celebrate the resilience and contributions of refugees in our communities. The
event was a powerful demonstration of solidarity and compassion, highlighting the need to welcome and empower
refugees and asylum seekers.

Congresswoman Tlaib at the Samaritas World Refugee Celebration.

James and Grace Boggs School Celebration

The James and Grace Lee Boggs community celebration brought me so much joy. The legacy of Jimmy and Grace
Lee Boggs continues to inspire our fight for transformative change. It was a privilege to join the incredible lineup of
speakers, including other advocates speaking out against injustice, and share words of inspiration as we celebrated
the Boggs' impact on our community.

Tuskegee Airman Statue Dedication

I was honored to attend the Tuskegee Airman Statue Dedication in celebration of the late Lt. Col. Alexander
Jefferson. We remember his remarkable service as a Tuskegee Airman and his contributions as a beloved educator
in Detroit. Standing with his family and our community to honor his legacy was a privilege, and it was great to
commemorate his heroism and dedication.

Congresswoman Tlaib at the Tuskegee Airman Statue Dedication.

Press Statements and In the News

The Nation: Black Liberation and Palestinian Liberation Are Interconnected

By Rashida Tlaib and Nina Turner

From Detroit to Cleveland to Gaza, and everywhere in between, we must fight for a world built on equal rights,
freedom from oppression, and human dignity for all people. In the words of civil rights activist Fannie Lou Hamer,

                                                                                 Page 4 of 6
         REP. RASHIDA TLAIB: I LIVE FOR THESE MOMENTS FOR OUR COMMUNITY JUNE 30, 2024

"Nobody's free until everybody's free." The collective liberation of oppressed people everywhere is intertwined, and
we must come together to fight for justice at home and around the world.

In this spirit, it has been deeply inspiring to see organizations focused on Black liberation, from the NAACP to the
Council of Bishops of the African Methodist Episcopal Church to The King Center, embrace the cause of Palestinian
human rights. All of these groups have called for a cease-fire in Gazaand recently, the NAACP, the nation's leading
civil rights organization, went a step further, urging the Biden administration to stop weapons shipments to Israel.
This courageous declaration by the NAACP is the latest example of the shared struggle for Black and Palestinian
liberation.

When we come together in solidarity to build a multi-racial, cross-faith, multi-generational movement, we realize our
power to bend the arc of the moral universe. Just as our civil rights leaders who came before us did, we all have a
moral responsibility to speak out against injustice everywhere and dismantle systemic racism, white supremacy,
and all systems of oppression.

We also have to unite because our struggles are so interconnected; for instance, according to US Census Bureau
estimates, the poverty rate is 33.8 percent in Detroit and 31.8 percent in Clevelandtwo of the highest rates among
America's largest cities. In a country that wastes trillions of dollars on war while continuing to defund our social
safety net, we know that poverty is a policy choice. Our communities often wonder why elected officials are not
addressing this crisis with the urgency it deserves. When we look at our politicians' indifference to the suffering here
in America, we can understand their indifference to the atrocities we are witnessing unfold every day in Gaza.

If our elected leaders can see what is happening in the communities they claim to represent, where people sleep on
the streets and children drink contaminated water; if they can see babies in America going to bed hungry, and not
act, it's no surprise that they can also ignore the starving babies in Gaza. If our elected leaders will stand by and
allow American police to brutalize Black and brown people in our communities, it makes sense that they also
excuse the Israeli forces that train many of them.

So how can we change this?

Despite being built to uphold white supremacy and maintain the status quo, our government has always been an
institution that responds to external pressure. During the height of the civil rights movement in the 1950s and '60s,
there was clarity among activists about the need to realize Black liberation and force public policy to protect Black
lives. The powerful in Washington didn't just wake up one day and decide to end Jim Crow. The people forced the
passage of civil rights legislation by marching, boycotting, and leading civil disobedience, relentlessly fighting for
clear policy demands until they were passed by Congress and signed into law by the president.

We must have the courage to raise our collective voice again on the frontlines of justice. Just as we march in
defense of Black lives and against police brutality in our own country, we now march for Palestinian lives,
demanding that our own government stop funding genocide.

Unfortunately, the three major evils the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. warned ofracism, poverty, and warare still
raging and are all linked. Since October, Israeli forces have killed more than 37,000 Palestinians in Gaza, including
over 15,000 children, and more than 85,000 people have been injured. They have killed at least 548 Palestinians,
including more than 135 children, in the West Bank. The consensus of the international community is clear: The
Israeli government is committing crimes against humanity that not only constitute the crime of apartheid, or racist
oppression and segregation, but also violate the Genocide Convention and international law. South Africa, after
defeating US-backed apartheid, has now become a voice for Palestinians at the International Court of Justice to
stop this genocide, highlighting the need for communities seeking justice to come together in solidarity.

King said that "a nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs
of social uplift is approaching spiritual death." Since 1948, the US has approved more than $141 billion in weapons
to the Israeli government as it continues to carry out ethnic cleansing of the Palestinian people. Just imagine what
$141 billion invested in our communities could do instead. By one estimate, it would take about $177 billion to lift
every American out of poverty.

                                                                                 Page 5 of 6
         REP. RASHIDA TLAIB: I LIVE FOR THESE MOMENTS FOR OUR COMMUNITY JUNE 30, 2024

Why is it that our country always has enough money to bomb people, but never enough to provide people with
health care, housing, and enough food to feed their families? Year after year elected officials tell us that there is no
money to invest in our communities, universal healthcare, or reparations, only to turn around and pass yet another
record-breaking military budgetthis year it topped $886 billionand send tens of billions more of our tax dollars to
Israel to fund this death and destruction.

It is past time to end the billions of dollars of funding we send to the Israeli government and to demand human
dignity for all people. We must join together as a multiracial, multifaith, multigenerational coalition for change. King
reminds us, "True peace is not merely the absence of tension, it is the presence of justice." The path forward to a
just and lasting peace for Palestinians and Israelis must include ending the genocide in Gaza, lifting the blockade,
facilitating the release of hostages and arbitrarily detained Palestinians, ending the occupation, and dismantling the
racist apartheid system. It is only then that Palestinians and Israelis can peacefully coexist in their homeland with
equal rights, safety, and freedom.

The movement that forces our government to stop funding endless war is the same movement demanding universal
healthcare, housing for all, reparations, and clean air and water. The same students, teachers, labor leaders, and
community activists who are organizing for a permanent cease-fire are also organizing for the liberation of all
people, including Black liberation. This moment calls for uncompromising moral clarity. History will remember those
who took a stand to demand that our government invests in life, not death.

This is that movement, and we are those people.

You can read the op-ed here.

Community Resources

Free Produce Boxes

Get free fruits and vegetables at the Sowing Seeds Growing Futures farmer's market located at 18900 Joy Rd,
Corner of Artesian, every Tuesday from 4:00 p.m. -7:00 p.m.

For more information contact Marco Allegretti at marco@joysouthfield.org

The Detroit Health Department Family and Community Health

The Detroit Health Department's Family and Community Health team is dedicated to empowering Detroit residents
through health and wellness initiatives. They offer vital programs such as the Fetal Infant Mortality Review to
prevent infant deaths, Community Health Workers Training to build a healthier community, and comprehensive
health education on critical issues like diabetes and heart health. For more information or to get involved, contact
them at (313) 876-4000 or via email at dhealth@detroitmi.gov

Wayne County Household Hazardous Waste Collection

Wayne County will be collecting household hazardous waste on Saturday, June 29 at Henry Ford College, 5101
Evergreen Road in Dearborn from 8:00 a.m. until 1:00 p.m. Only household-generated products from Wayne
County residents will be accepted.

For more information, please contact the Wayne County Resource Recovery Coordinator at (734) 326-3936 or visit
waynecounty.com/departments/environmental/land-resource-management.aspx

The Michigan Immigrants Rights Center

The Michigan Immigrant Rights Center is a safe resource center for immigrants and refugees, providing services
like legal assistance, education programs, and community support across Southeast Michigan. Their mission is to
help individuals navigate the immigration process and integrate successfully into their new communities. To learn
more or seek assistance, visit their website or call (734) 239-6863 (press 1).

                                                                                Page 6 of 6
        REP. RASHIDA TLAIB: I LIVE FOR THESE MOMENTS FOR OUR COMMUNITY JUNE 30, 2024


Load-Date: July 21, 2024


  
