

                                                                                               Page 1 of 3
   ICMI and HDI Assist Organizations When Weaknesses and Gaps in Service Capabilities Are Exposed to Avoid
                            Crisis Situations Offer Training, Consulting, Events, Re....




 ICMI and HDI Assist Organizations When Weaknesses and Gaps in Service
    Capabilities Are Exposed to Avoid Crisis Situations; Offer Training,
Consulting, Events, Resources and Community to Assist Contact Center and
                         IT Support Communities
                                                   Business Wire
                                        July 25, 2024 Thursday 3:03 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1235 words
Dateline: SAN FRANCISCO

Body


ICMI , the leading global provider of comprehensive resources for customer management professionals, and HDI ,
the leading organization dedicated to elevating service and support across the enterprise, understand business
critical disruptions and the challenges they create. With over 35 years expertise, ICMI and HDI help organizations
manage unexpected situations better.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.             View        the      full     release      here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240725698812/en/

"Over the last few days, we have all watched as the IT disaster has shattered our connected world. In crisis
situations like this one, weaknesses and gaps become apparent quickly," said Tara Gibb, Senior Director, ICMI and
HDI. "Don't wait for the next crisis to upskill your team. We know how this can impact your teams and how
exhausting it can be to handle the pressures and demands associated with a crisis situation. ICMI and HDI are
known for providing customized insights that can be acted on immediately, drive measurable efficiencies and
deliver positive fiscal impact. Our proven and highly rated training can help any organization build confidence and
knowledge and increase retention."

ICMI offers events, training, consulting, resources and community to assist the contact center community. Tap into
their:
    •     Training: From role-based courses such as customer service representative through leadership and topic-
          based courses aligned with key critical contact center practices like AI, workforce management, quality and
          metrics, customer experience, ICMI works with contact center professionals to fortify a team's skills and
          competencies.
    •     Consulting: ICMI consultants provide in-depth assessments and solutions resulting in sustainable
          improvements to customer experiences and business outcomes. ICMI is results-driven and works to make
          a significant impact on the way contact centers are delivering strategic value to the rest of their
          organization. This is accomplished through a comprehensive assessment of a customers' contact center

                                                                                              Page 2 of 3
  ICMI and HDI Assist Organizations When Weaknesses and Gaps in Service Capabilities Are Exposed to Avoid
                           Crisis Situations Offer Training, Consulting, Events, Re....

        operations management, people management, technology and customer access strategy that is aligned
        with ICMI's contact center site certification standard.
    •   ICMI's Contact Center Expo: The event takes place October 21-24 at the Loews Royal Pacific Resort in
        Orlando, Florida and brings contact center leaders together to access a broad range of contact center and
        customer experience insights and practical takeaways that can be implemented immediately upon return to
        the office. Conference topics are centered around: AI, Culture and Hybrid Workforce, Operations, Strategy
        and Leadership and Customer Experience.
    •   Resources: From topic-based articles to research, ICMI's resources can provide you with guidance and
        insights in any moment of need.
    •   Community: Tap into ICMI's LinkedIn group to get real time answers and support from peers.

HDI offers training, consulting, events, resources and community to assist the IT support community. Tap into their:
    •   Training: From role-based certification courses such as analyst through director and service management
        practice courses like incident management, problem management, ITIL, knowledge management and
        service level management, HDI works with service management professionals to fortify a team's skills and
        competencies.
    •   Consulting: HDI consultants provide in-depth assessments and solutions resulting in sustainable
        improvements to both customer experiences and business outcomes. HDI is results-driven and works to
        make a significant impact on the way support centers are delivering strategic value to an entire
        organization. This is accomplished through a comprehensive assessment of a customers' ITSM operations
        management, people management, technology and customer access strategy that is aligned with HDI's
        site certification standard.
    •   Service Management World: The event takes place November 17-21, 2024 at the Loews Sapphire Falls
        Resort in Orlando, Florida and brings IT leaders together to access a broad range of service management
        and IT support insights and practical takeaways that can be implemented immediately upon return to the
        office. Conference topics include AI and automation, service management practices and principles (i.e.:
        problem management, knowledge management, change management, service level management),
        experience management, hybrid workforce, digital transformation, support models and channel strategies,
        operational and continual process improvement, metrics and analytics, leadership, culture and team
        building and more.?
    •   Resources: From topic-based articles to research, HDI's SupportWorld resources can provide IT support
        professionals with guidance and insights in any moment of need.
    •   Community: HDI is known for its tight knit, engaged and generous community of IT support professionals.
        Tap into HDI Connect or HDI's LinkedIn group to get real time answers and support from peers.

To learn more about ICMI and HDI resources, contact Todd Piccuillo at todd.piccuillo@informa.com .

ABOUT ICMI

The International Customer Management Institute (ICMI) is the leading global provider of comprehensive resources
for customer management professionals -- from frontline agents to executives -- who wish to improve customer
experiences and increase efficiencies at every level of the contact center. Since 1985, ICMI has helped more than
50,000 organizations in 167 countries through training, events, consulting, and informationalresources. ICMI's
experienced and dedicated team of industry insiders, trainers, and consultants are committed to helping you raise
the strategic value of your contact center, optimize your operations and improve your customer service. ICMI is
brought to you by Informa Tech.

About HDI

                                                                                              Page 3 of 3
  ICMI and HDI Assist Organizations When Weaknesses and Gaps in Service Capabilities Are Exposed to Avoid
                           Crisis Situations Offer Training, Consulting, Events, Re....

For more than 35 years, HDI has partnered with thousands of professionals and their organizations to improve their
performance by helping them to: drive change, harness knowledge, transform teams, make connections, and turn
challenges into opportunities. HDI empowers the technical support and service management community to advance
their strategy, operations and teams through optimized service delivery. From the employee to the enterprise, HDI
transforms service and support through its comprehensive lineup of training and certification courses, industry-
leading annual conferences, results-driven consulting services, community-based networking opportunities, and
insightful research and informational resources. What does HDI stand for? HDI stands for smarter service resulting
in better business outcomes. Learn more at https://www.thinkhdi.com . HDI is brought to you by Informa Tech.

About Informa Tech

Informa Tech is a leading provider of market insight and market access to the global business technology
community. Through in-depth expertise and an engaged audience community, Informa Tech helps business
professionals make better technology decisions and marketers reach the most powerful tech buyers and influencers
in the world. Across its portfolio of over 100+ trusted brands, Informa Tech has over 1000 industry experts,
including over 400 research analysts and consultants in global research group Omdia, and a monthly audience
reach of over 125 million. Informa Tech is a division of FTSE 100 company Informa plc. Learn more about Informa
Tech .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240725698812/en/


CONTACT: Media
Meryl Franzman
ICMI and HDI

Meryl.franzman@informa.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 25, 2024


  
