

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 3
    U.K. Firms Turn to Hybrid Clouds for Security, Compliance Companies in the U.K. are shifting away from on-
                          premises environments and moving toward managed hostin....




  U.K. Firms Turn to Hybrid Clouds for Security, Compliance; Companies in
   the U.K. are shifting away from on-premises environments and moving
    toward managed hosting services, ISG Provider Lens(TM) report says
                                                   Business Wire
                                       July 18, 2024 Thursday 9:00 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1089 words
Dateline: LONDON

Body


Enterprises in the U.K. are looking beyond public clouds and increasingly seeking services from private and hybrid
cloud providers, according to a new research report published today by Information Services Group ( ISG )
(Nasdaq: III ), a leading global technology research and advisory firm.

The 2024 ISG Provider Lens(TM) Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Services report for the U.K. finds both large
and midmarket companies shifting their cloud environments away from public clouds and back to private clouds or
to a hybrid of both. Among the factors driving this shift are growing needs for strengthened security and compliance
with changing regulations, the ISG report says.

"Service providers can assist midmarket enterprises in developing these hybrid cloud strategies," said Anthony
Drake, ISG partner, North Europe. "They offer reduced deployment costs, disaster recovery solutions and access
to modern computing technologies such as serverless architecture, database as a service and DevOps practices."

Hybrid clouds are not the only alternative open to companies who seek greater security and compliance, the ISG
report says. According to the report, enterprises in the U.K. are gradually shifting their focus from on-premises
environments to outsourced services such as managed hosting for data storage and business continuity purposes.

In addition to reducing the burden of operating a private data center while maintaining control over the hosted data,
managed hosting provides enterprises with additional flexibility and features, such as multi-cloud connectivity, low-
latency network connectivity, bare metal services, platform-agnostic operating systems and database support, the
ISG report says.

Data centers in the U.K. are positioning themselves as connectivity hubs, the ISG report says. They offer access to
advanced communication infrastructure such as fiber, dark fiber, internet exchange points (IXPs) and subsea
cables, the ISG report says. In response to the increasing demand for high speed, this supplies U.K. enterprises
with low-latency connectivity for both local and international communications, the report says.

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 3
   U.K. Firms Turn to Hybrid Clouds for Security, Compliance Companies in the U.K. are shifting away from on-
                         premises environments and moving toward managed hostin....

"Large enterprises in the U.K. are looking for providers who can offer reliable uptime, secure data storage and high-
performance network connectivity," said Jan Erik Aase, partner and global leader, ISG Provider Lens Research.
"The priorities for midsize enterprises lean toward comprehensive technical support, including 24/7 monitoring,
rapid incident response and proactive maintenance that will ensure maximum uptime and availability."

The report also examines how providers are adopting FinOps practices to optimize costs while maintaining
sustainability goals.

For more insights into the private/hybrid cloud and data center services challenges that enterprises in the U.K. face,
including rising energy costs and data security concerns, and ISG's advice for addressing them, see the ISG
Provider Lens(TM) Focal Points briefing here .

The 2024 ISG Provider Lens(TM) Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Services report for the U.K. evaluates the
capabilities of 57 providers across four quadrants: Managed Services for Large Accounts, Managed Services for
Midmarket, Managed Hosting and Colocation Services.

The report names Fujitsu as a Leader in three quadrants, while Claranet, DXC Technology, Ensono, Kyndryl,
Rackspace Technology and T-Systems are named as Leaders in two quadrants each. Accenture/Accenture
(Navisite), Atos, Capgemini, Computacenter, Digital Realty, Equinix, Global Switch, HCLTech, Hexaware, Infosys,
LTIMindtree, NTT GDC / NTT Global Data Centers, Pulsant, Redcentric, TCS, Telefonica Tech, Telehouse, Unisys
and Wipro are named as Leaders in one quadrant each.

In addition, Hexaware and Tech Mahindra are named as Rising Stars - companies with a "promising portfolio" and
"high future potential" by ISG's definition - in one quadrant each.

In the area of customer experience, Green is named the global ISG CX Star Performer for 2024 among
Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Services partners. Green earned the highest customer satisfaction scores in
ISG's Voice of the Customer survey, part of the ISG Star of Excellence(TM) program , the premier quality
recognition for the technology and business services industry.

The 2024 ISG Provider Lens(TM) Private/Hybrid Cloud - Data Center Services report for the U.K. is available to
subscribers or for one-time purchase on this webpage .

About ISG Provider Lens(TM) Research

The ISG Provider Lens(TM) Quadrant research series is the only service provider evaluation of its kind to combine
empirical, data-driven research and market analysis with the real-world experience and observations of ISG's global
advisory team. Enterprises will find a wealth of detailed data and market analysis to help guide their selection of
appropriate sourcing partners, while ISG advisors use the reports to validate their own market knowledge and make
recommendations to ISG's enterprise clients. The research currently covers providers offering their services
globally, across Europe, as well as in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Brazil, the U.K., France, Benelux, Germany,
Switzerland, the Nordics, Australia and Singapore/Malaysia, with additional markets to be added in the future. For
more information about ISG Provider Lens research, please visit this webpage .

About ISG

ISG (Information Services Group) (Nasdaq: III ) is a leading global technology research and advisory firm. A trusted
business partner to more than 900 clients, including more than 75 of the world's top 100 enterprises, ISG is
committed to helping corporations, public sector organizations, and service and technology providers achieve
operational excellence and faster growth. The firm specializes in digital transformation services, including AI and
automation, cloud and data analytics; sourcing advisory; managed governance and risk services; network carrier
services; strategy and operations design; change management; market intelligence and technology research and
analysis. Founded in 2006, and based in Stamford, Conn., ISG employs 1,600 digital-ready professionals operating
in more than 20 countries-a global team known for its innovative thinking, market influence, deep industry and

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 3
   U.K. Firms Turn to Hybrid Clouds for Security, Compliance Companies in the U.K. are shifting away from on-
                         premises environments and moving toward managed hostin....

technology expertise, and world-class research and analytical capabilities based on the industry's most
comprehensive marketplace data. For more information, visit www.isg-one.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240718437970/en/


CONTACT: Press Contacts:Sarah Ye, ISG
+44 7833 567868

sarah.ye@isg-one.com Will Thoretz, ISG
+1 203 517 3119

will.thoretz@isg-one.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: July 23, 2024


  
