

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 8
                                  Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024




                   Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           August 24, 2024 Saturday 8:10 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 3437 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


(TNSres) -- The U.S. Census Bureau issued the following tip sheet on Aug. 23, 2024:

***

Upcoming

2024 Product Calendar

The U.S. Census Bureau has posted anticipated release dates for each regular and recurring statistical product
scheduled for release in 2024. These products are listed in the Census Bureau's online product calendar, which is
updated as needed throughout the year.

Census Scientific Advisory Committee 2024 Fall Meeting

The U.S. Census Bureau will host the Census Scientific Advisory Committee meeting September 19-20. Experts
from across the nation will attend the virtual meeting to discuss the implementation of the updated race/ethnicity
standard, ACS Group Quarters Internet Data, The Young Children Working Group and the implementation of the
Annual Integrated Economic Survey utilizing enterprise solutions. (Event scheduled for September 19-20.)

***

2020 Census

2020 Modified Age & Race Census File

The U.S. Census Bureau is scheduled to release national and county-level modified age and race data by single-
year of age, sex, race, and Hispanic origin from the 2020 Census. Files were created by applying age smoothing to
a subset of age data as well as redistributing the "Some Other Race" values from the 2020 Census into the five
race categories included in the U.S. Office of Management and Budget1997 revised standards for the collection,

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024

tabulation, and presentation of federal data on race and ethnicity. These data will allow for accurate comparisons by
race between 2020 Census results, the 2020 Demographic Analysis estimates, and the official population
estimates. Visit the Modified Race Data webpage to access modified race data from the 2010 and 2000 Censuses.
(Scheduled for release September 5.)

Supplemental Demographic and Housing Characteristics File (S-DHC)

The S-DHC tables combine the characteristics of households and the people living in them at the state and national
level. These tables supplement the data about households and people available in the DHC, providing average
household size and counts of people living in certain types of households. The final table shells are included on the
"SDHC Tables" tab of the 2020 Census Data Product Crosswalk. Embargo subscribers can access these statistics
beginning 10 a.m. ET, Tuesday, September 17, for release at 12:01 a.m. ET, Thursday, September 19.

***

American Community Survey

2023 American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates

The 2023 American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year estimates are scheduled to be released September 12. These
data will be available for the nation, states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, congressional districts,
metropolitan areas, counties, places and other geographic areas with a population of 65,000 or more. These
estimates include topics such as language spoken at home, educational attainment, commute to work, employment,
mortgage status and rent, income, poverty and health insurance coverage. The Census Bureau is set to hold a
webinar Thursday, September 5, at 1 p.m. ET, explaining how to access data and online resources related to this
release. Embargo subscribers can access these statistics beginning at 10 a.m. ET, Tuesday, September 10.
(Scheduled for release at 12:01 a.m., Thursday, September 12.)

Demonstration Data: Tables Using American Community Survey Race and Ancestry Data

The Census Bureau will release tables using the 2022 American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year data that show
characteristics of 100+ population groups produced using the ACS race question and the ACS ancestry question.
These tables will show how data collected from the Census Bureau's race and ancestry questions would differ if the
ethnic populations were identified using race rather than ancestry data. (Tentatively scheduled for release in
September.)

***

Demographic

Population Pyramid for Detailed Hispanic Origin Groups

The U.S. Census Bureau is set to release a new data visualization - How do Hispanic or Latino Groups in the
United States Compare? This interactive population pyramid uses 2000, 2010, and 2020 census data to allow users
to view changes in regional and detailed Hispanic or Latino groups such as Mexican, Puerto Rican, Salvadoran and
Colombian over time. Users can also directly compare groups to view differences in age and sex distributions. The
tool will be available in English and Spanish. (Tentatively scheduled for release in August.)

Local Estimates of Internet Adoption (LEIA)

The U.S. Census Bureau and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) will release
the 2022 Local Estimates of Internet Adoption (LEIA), an experimental data product that measures Internet
adoption at the county level. (Tentatively scheduled for release August 27.)

Income in the United States: 2023

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 8
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024

The Census Bureau will announce the nation's annual estimates on income, earnings and inequality to evaluate
national economic trends and understand their effect on the well-being of households and individuals. These
estimates are based on the 2024 Current Population Survey Annual Social and Economic Supplement. (Scheduled
for release September 10.)

Health Insurance in the United States: 2023

The Census Bureau will announce the nation's annual health insurance coverage estimates highlighting
comparisons between 2022 and 2023 data as well as examining characteristics by health insurance status to better
understand the well-being of individuals. These estimates are based on the 2024 Current Population Survey Annual
Social and Economic Supplement. State-level American Community Survey data will be released September 12.
(Scheduled for release September 10.)

Poverty in the United States: 2023

The Census Bureau will announce the nation's official poverty and Supplemental Poverty Measure (SPM) estimates
to help gauge the economic well-being of households, families and individuals. These estimates are based on the
2024 Current Population Survey Annual Social and Economic Supplement. (Scheduled for release September 10.)

50 Years of Data: Upcoming Release of American Housing Survey

In recognition of the 50th anniversary of the American Housing Survey, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) and the U.S. Census Bureau will release products from the 2023 American Housing Survey
(AHS). The biennial AHS is the nation's most comprehensive housing survey, providing current data on a wide
range of housing subjects. Data will be available through the AHS Table Creator and public-use file. (Scheduled for
release September 25.)

ACCESS BROADBAND Dashboard

The U.S. Census Bureau and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) will unveil
the next release of their joint interactive dashboard that allows users to compare U.S., state, county, and census
tract-level maps displaying broadband availability and adoption statistics with select social and economic indicators.
This is the first release to include data from the Federal Communication Commission's Broadband Data Collection
on available broadband services with speeds of at least 25/3 Mbps and 100/20 Mbps. (Scheduled for release in
September.)

Household Pulse Survey

The experimental (Household Pulse Survey HPS) is an effort by the Census Bureau and other federal statistical
agencies to measure how emergent issues are impacting U.S. households from a social and economic perspective.
Phase 4.2 topics include access to transportation and the internet, shortage of critical items and updated response
options for the ages of children and school enrollment. Previously asked questions on babies or infants in the
household and unemployment insurance items have been removed. Data collection for phase 4.2 began July 23
with data dissemination, including detailed data tables, an interactive data tool, and public-use files, on a monthly
basis. (Scheduled for release September 12 and October 3.)

***

Economic

2023 Annual Integrated Economic Survey Due

The due date for the 2023 Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) has officially passed. Businesses can report
by logging on to the respondent portal and accessing their survey card. For more information or assistance with
completing this survey, visit www.census.gov/aies/information or call the AIES customer help line at 1-800-681-
3012, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-8 p.m. ET.

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 8
                              Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024

"The Intergenerational Transmission of Employers and the Earnings of Young Workers"

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute, welcomes
Matthew Staiger, research scientist at Opportunity Insights, as he presents, "The Intergenerational Transmission of
Employers and the Earnings of Young Workers." This study shows how the intergenerational persistence in
earnings is shaped by jobs obtained at a parent's employer. Combining data from the Longitudinal Employer-
Household Dynamics (LEHD) program and Decennial Census provides information on parent-child and employer-
employee linkages. (Scheduled for August 27.)

Quarterly Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenues: 2nd Quarter 2024

The U.S. Census Bureau will release a summary of quarterly estimates of state and local government tax revenue
at the national level as well as detailed tax revenue data for individual states. This report produces two income and
sales data tables and one table for tax collections by state. More information about this release is available in the
2024 Quarterly Summary of State and Local Tax Revenue tables at census.gov. (Scheduled for release September
12.)

Cannabis Excise Sales Tax Collections: 2nd Quarter 2024

The U.S. Census Bureau will release experimental data and an updated data visualization featuring quarterly tax
collections at the state level for cannabis sales. Data for cannabis sales taxes were reported in the Quarterly
Summary of State and Local Government Tax Revenue and were first released for the second quarter of 2023. The
data visualization provides cannabis revenue as a percentage of the states' total tax revenue where available and
percent change from the prior quarter. More information about this data can be found online. (Scheduled for release
September 12.)

Dispersion Statistics on Productivity (DiSP)

The U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics will release a new version of the experimental
data product, Dispersion Statistics on Productivity (DiSP, www.census.gov/disp). DiSP provides information on the
within-industry dispersion in productivity at the 4-digit NAICS level for the manufacturing sector. The new version of
the DiSP data covers years 1987 to 2021. (Scheduled for release September 12.)

"Decoding Commuting Distance Patterns Using Census Data"

The U.S. Census Bureau and the Local Employment Dynamics (LED) Partnership in collaboration with the Council
for Community and Economic Research (C2ER) and the Labor Market Information (LMI) Institute, welcomes Justin
Krohn, a Senior Research Project Analyst for the Center for Applied Research and Engagement Systems, for the
University of Missouri-Extension, will present, "Decoding Commuting Distance Patterns Using Census Data." This
presentation will provide a brief overview of the Machine Learning model trained to predict the average commuting
distance for each census tract in the U.S. Audience will gain insights into the methodology employed for calculating
the average commuting distance using Census Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics Origin-Destination
Statistics (LODES) dataset. (Scheduled for September 18.)

Exploring Census Data Webinar Series: Economic Census - A Look into Comprehensive Business Statistics

Join us for the Exploring Census Data webinar series on the Economic Census - A Look into Comprehensive
Business Statistics. In this session, a Census Bureau expert will highlight key insights from the 2022 Economic
Census of the Island Areas. Discover the wealth of information available by industry and geography that can
empower your business decisions. The session will feature a review of current and upcoming releases, a
demonstration of how to access and use data effectively, and a live Q&A with our expert. Don't miss this opportunity
to deepen your understanding of Census data and its impact on people, places, and the economy. This webinar is
the final installment in a series of six designed to unlock the potential of Census data. (Scheduled for September
19.)

                                                                                                     Page 5 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024

Business Trends and Outlook Survey

The Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS) measures business conditions on an ongoing basis. BTOS
experimental data products are representative of all employer businesses in the U.S. economy, excluding farms.
The data allow greater insight into the state of the economy by providing continuous, timely information for key
economic measures. Data are released biweekly and are available by sector, state, employment size, and the 25
most populous metropolitan statistical areas. Additional details on artificial intelligence use and types used were
added for one cycle and released March 28, 2024. Because of the change in sample composition, BTOS data from
before September 11, 2023, are not directly comparable with data after that date.

Monthly Business Formation Statistics

After the weekly BFS release of 2024 week 34 data on August 29, 2024, weekly estimates of BFS data will no
longer be published on a weekly basis. The Census Bureau will continue to produce weekly estimates; however,
the weekly estimate files will be published as part of the Monthly BFS Release. The first monthly release of weekly
estimates will be published on September 12, 2024.

***

Recently Released

(Released since August 9, 2024)

2020 Census

119th Congress Block Equivalency Files

August 15 -- The U.S. Census Bureau released of the 119th Congress Block Equivalency Files. These files are the
whole 2020 Census tabulation block representations of the 119th Congressional District plans as submitted by the
states to the Census Bureau.

***

Economic

Exploring Census Data Webinar Series: Highlights of Key Programs & Data

August 22 -- Census Bureau subject matter experts presented information available from multiple sources with
crucial statistics for business needs. You will learn about the different business and demographic data available
from the Business Dynamics Statistics and the American Community Survey. Explore establishment and firm
characteristics to include dynamics such as job creation and destruction, startups, shutdowns and the importance of
demographic data. The session includes a live demonstration on how to access the data along with illustrations of
real-world applications. Engage directly with our experts through live chat and the Q&A segment. This webinar is
part 5 of six in a series designed to help data users discover Census Bureau data related to people, places and the
economy.

***

Ocean Economy Data for U.S. Territories

August 21 -- The Census Bureau released County Business Patterns estimates of the Ocean Economy in the five
U.S. territories (Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and the
U.S. Virgin Islands). Estimates are provided by non standard state- and county-equivalent geographies, comprised
of selected coastal ZIP codes across each territory, and by the Economics: National Ocean Watch sectors, defined
by the Office for Coastal Management at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

***

                                                                                                     Page 6 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024

Facts for Features

Hispanic Heritage Month: 2024

August 15 -- During this month-long observance, our nation celebrates the culture and traditions of U.S. residents
who trace their roots to Spain, Mexico and the Spanish-speaking nations of Central America, South America and
the Caribbean. The Census Bureau joins in the celebration with this fact sheet presenting a range of updated
statistics describing the demographic state of the nation's Hispanic population. Spanish

***

America Counts: Stories Behind the Numbers

America Counts tells the stories behind the numbers in a new and inviting way. We feature stories on various topics
such as families, housing, employment, business, education, the economy, emergency preparedness and the
population. New stories include:

* Where Do Male and Female Same-Sex Couples Live? (August 21)

* How to Measure Disasters' Impact on Supply Chains (August 8)

***

Stats for Stories

Stats for Stories provides links to timely story ideas highlighting the Census Bureau's newsworthy statistics that
relate to current events, observances, holidays and anniversaries. The story ideas are intended to assist the media
in story mining and producing content for their respective audiences.

* 2024 Atlantic Hurricane Season: June 1-November 30

***

Blog

Continued Insights From Our Community-of-the-Whole Approach -- August 13

Written by: Robert L. Santos, Director, U.S. Census Bureau -- Here's an insight to think about that emerged from
my travel engagements: Public service can take many forms. We at the U.S. Census Bureau embrace our public
service mission to provide quality data on our nation's people, places and economy by collecting and publishing
statistical data.

***

Resources

Emergency Management/Disaster Resources

When major disasters strike, visit our Emergency Management webpage for demographic and economic data on
impacted areas. Each disaster will include data from our key emergency management tools: OnTheMap for
Emergency Management; Community Resilience Estimates; Census Business Builder: Regional Analyst Edition;
and other useful resources.

***

Learn What Surveys Are Being Conducted in Your Community

                                                                                                      Page 7 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024

Discover which of the U.S. Census Bureau's 130-plus annual surveys are being conducted in your community. In a
variety of surveys and censuses, evolving from the first census in 1790, the Census Bureau provides official
information about America's people, businesses, industries and institutions. Learn more about surveys currently
being conducted in each Census Bureau region:

* Atlanta

* Chicago

* Denver

* Los Angeles

* New York

* Philadelphia

* All Surveys

***

Data Tools

Below are a few of the U.S. Census Bureau's interactive applications used to access statistics from our 130-plus
annual surveys. A complete list can be accessed on the Census Bureau's Data Tools and Apps webpage.

***

Census Geocoder

Provides interactive & programmatic (REST) access to users interested in matching addresses to geographic
locations and entities containing those addresses.

Explore Census Data

This new platform on data.census.gov is based on overwhelming feedback to streamline the way you get data and
digital content from Census Bureau.

***

Small Business Pulse Survey Data

The Small Business Pulse Survey (SBPS) measures the effect of changing business conditions during the
Coronavirus pandemic on our nation's small businesses.

***

Training Opportunities

Census Bureau Training Opportunities

Webinars are available on a regular basis to help the public access and use Census Bureau statistics. These free
sessions, which are 60 to 90 minutes each, show users how to navigate Census Bureau databases and mapping
tools and find demographic and economic statistics at the local or national level. Descriptions of upcoming sessions
are available on our Census Academy webpage. Login details are provided at least one week before a webinar.

* Intergenerational Transmission of Employers and Earnings of Young Workers (Tuesday, August 27, 2-3 p.m. ET)

                                                                                                   Page 8 of 8
                             Census Bureau Issues Tip Sheet No. 17 - Aug. 23, 2024

* Introduction to the American Community Survey (Wednesday, August 28, 2-3 p.m. ET)

* 2023 American Community Survey 1-year Estimates Prerelease Webinar (Thursday, September 5, 1-2 p.m. ET)

* Decoding Commuting Distance Patterns Using Census Data (Wednesday, September 18, 1:30-2:45 p.m. ET)

* Como solicito acceso a traves del portal estandar de aplicacion (SAP) (Wednesday, September 18, 1:30-3:00
p.m. ET)

* Decoding Commuting Distance Patterns Using Census Data (Wednesday, September 18, 1:30-2:45 p.m. ET)

* Economic Census - A Look into Comprehensive Business Statistics (Thursday, September 19, 2-3 p.m. ET)

* Navigating My Community Explorer (Thursday, September 19, 2-3 p.m. ET)

* Navigating data.census.gov for 2020 S-DHC Data (Tuesday, September 24, 2-3 p.m. ET)

Archived Training Resources -- Visit the Census Bureau's Educational Resource Library for previously recorded,
free training available at your convenience. The library includes presentations, recorded webinars, tutorials and
other helpful materials.

***

Original text and links presented by source here: https://www.census.gov/newsroom/tip-sheets/2024/tp24-17.html

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8788268 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: August 24, 2024


  
