

                                                                             Page 1 of 3
   SCHUMER, AFTER YEARS OF ADVOCACY, ANNOUNCES GROUNDBREAKING FOR NEW $70 MILLION
  NATIONAL GRAPE RESEARCH LAB IN THE HEART OF THE FINGER LAKES; SENATOR SAYS NEW ST....




        SCHUMER, AFTER YEARS OF ADVOCACY, ANNOUNCES
GROUNDBREAKING FOR NEW $70 MILLION NATIONAL GRAPE RESEARCH
LAB IN THE HEART OF THE FINGER LAKES; SENATOR SAYS NEW STATE-
   OF-THE-ART FACILITY WILL HELP FINGER LAKES GROWERS AND
     VINEYARDS, SOLIDIFYING NY AS EPICENTER OF RESEARCH &
    INNOVATION FOR THE FUTURE OF AMERICA'S WINE INDUSTRY
                                                      US Fed News
                                           June 26, 2024 Wednesday 9:50 PM EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 1684 words

Body


WASHINGTON, June 26 -- The office of Sen. Charles E. Schumer issued the following press release:

For Years, USDA's Grape Research Scientists Worked In Tiny Space Leased From Cornell, But They Needed
Better Tech & Site To Tackle Problems Facing America's Wine & Grape Industry; In 2019, After Years Of Pushing,
Schumer Secured $68.9 Million In Fed $$ To Finally Make It Happen

New State-Of-The-Art Lab Will Support Finger Lakes Wine & Grapes By Leading America In Latest Research In
Grape Genetics, Crop Science, Pests And More, Further Solidifying Region As Leader Of The Future Of America's
Wine Industry

Schumer: We're Popping The Cork And Pouring New Fed $$ To Make The Finger Lakes The Beating Heart Of
R&D For The Future Of America's Wine & Grape Industry

Following years of relentless advocacy to bolster Upstate New York's wine industry, U.S. Senate Majority Leader
Chuck Schumer today announced that thanks to a massive $68.9 million federal investment he secured, Cornell
and the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Agricultural Research Service (ARS) have officially
broken ground to construct America's new, state-of-the-art National Grape Improvement Center in the heart of the
Finger Lakes. Schumer said this new 70,000+ square foot facility will help establish Geneva, NY and the Finger
Lakes as the center of innovation and R&D for wine and viticulture bringing new technology and top scientists to
ensure New York's and America's wine grapes are the highest quality, hardy against diseases, and thrive in diverse
climate conditions in order to produce wines that will be renowned worldwide.

                                                                             Page 2 of 3
   SCHUMER, AFTER YEARS OF ADVOCACY, ANNOUNCES GROUNDBREAKING FOR NEW $70 MILLION
  NATIONAL GRAPE RESEARCH LAB IN THE HEART OF THE FINGER LAKES; SENATOR SAYS NEW ST....

"Today everyone in the Finger Lakes can raise a glass and cheer as we break ground on America's new National
Grape Improvement Center. Geneva and the Finger Lakes will now be the beating heart of research and innovation
for the future of America's wine and grape industry," said Senator Schumer. "From the wines made here on Seneca
Lake to concords grown for juice & jelly, this region has time and time again proven itself as the leader in innovation
when it comes to America's grape culture. This massive 70,000 square foot lab will help cement the Finger Lakes
legacy within the global wine industry and marks the start of a new chapter for something greater. In 2018, I
promised to push for this center and secured the $70 million federal investment to make today possible. Now with
shovels hitting the ground we can finally pop the cork to say the future of America's wine will flow through the Finger
Lakes."

Jim Trezise, President, WineAmerica said, "Quality starts in the vineyard, and research drives quality. Senator
Schumer's tireless support of the grape and wine industry, most recently with funding for this new facility housing
grape genetics research, reflects his awareness that grapes and wine are not just delicious farm products, but
economic engines which generated $276 billion for the American economy in 2022. Cheers!"

Scott Osborn, President and Co-Owner Fox Run Vineyards said, "Senator Schumer's support for Cornell has
resulted in the development of Traminette and other grape varieties that are more disease tolerant, more winter
hardy, and ripen earlier, which for those of us here in the Finger lakes and other cool climate regions in the United
States has helped us expand our businesses. This new grape genetics facility will accelerate that progress.

Sam Filler, Executive Director of the New York Wine & Grape Foundation said, "The increasing unpredictable
variability in weather patterns, from droughts and fire events in the West to late spring frost and freeze events in the
East, makes grape growing in the United States more challenging and riskier. Even traditional European grape
regions with similar climate impacts have started cultivating more extreme weather-tolerant grape varieties. Cornell
University has been at the forefront of grape breeding in the United States for decades. Senator Schumer's efforts
to secure the Grape Innovation Lab at Cornell University will ensure that New York will remain a leader in
developing solutions for the national grape industry to adapt to the impacts of climate change."

Schumer explained the new National Grape Improvement Center will serve as a world-class research facility aimed
at supporting the growth and resilience of New York and America's viticulture. The massive over 70,000 square foot
facility will house and significantly enhance the USDA'sGrape Genetics Research Unit, which for years was limited
by its small leased, space from Cornell, and USDA's Plant Genetic Resources Unit which will improve the
cultivation of other vital New York crops like apples and tart cherries and new crops like hemp. In addition, four
Cornell grapevine research projects will move into the research facility. These facilities will lead the nation in critical
research to combat threats such as invasive species, pests, emerging pathogens, and climate change impacts,
including increased drought, salinity, and cold. The center will be the epicenter for new insights into the grape
industry and help growers in the Finger Lakes and across America make superior products for wine and juice.

The National Association of American Wineries 2022 National Economic Impact Study of the Wine Industry
revealed that the New York wine industry has created 92,731 jobs, generating $5.64 billion in annual wages, and
contributing nearly $15 billion in direct economic impact to New York State.

The massive research lab, office building, greenhouse, and other facilities, will feature cutting-edge technologies
and solutions. The new center will strengthen the grape research communityby enhancing opportunities for
scientists to collaborate across disciplines and organizations. The building's massive design includes large open
spaces specifically for advanced grape robotics studies, facilitating the use of remote sensing, robotics, and
artificial intelligence systems to help growers detect and manage grape diseases. By harnessing ARS's imaging
capabilities and genetic resources, the center will also support research into climate change adaptability and the
development of improved grape varieties. The center's researchers will improve cultivation, quality and yield for
grape producers nationwide. By addressing climate-related challenges - including water availability, pest
infestations, and pathogen threats - researchers will help ensure that grape production remains viable even in
changing conditions. Plus, the Center's geneticists and breeders can innovate new grape cultivars that thrive in
diverse climates and provide growers with alternatives to the classic European grape varieties.

                                                                             Page 3 of 3
   SCHUMER, AFTER YEARS OF ADVOCACY, ANNOUNCES GROUNDBREAKING FOR NEW $70 MILLION
  NATIONAL GRAPE RESEARCH LAB IN THE HEART OF THE FINGER LAKES; SENATOR SAYS NEW ST....

This is the culmination of years of advocacy by Schumer, who going back to 2018, pushed to secure federal funding
to modernize the Grape Genetics Lab technology and ensure researchers had the state-of-the-art tools needed to
respond to the needs of a rapidly-changing grape and wine industry. Since the early 2000's Schumer has
advocated for feasibility studies and development of the national facility, securing essential funding allocations in
the USDA's annual budget to support the grape genetics lab and its work. This new facility at Cornell AgriTech
represents the realization of these efforts, providing a cutting-edge environment for groundbreaking research and
innovation in grape genetics.

Schumer said the Grape Genetics Research Unit, co-located on the Cornell AgriTech campus, is one of the ARS'
most productive, collaborative, and innovative research programs, but for decades it has been constrained by
space. The new lab will foster increased collaboration between federal scientists and Cornell faculty, researchers,
and extension associates. This has helped spur exponential growth in the grape and wine industry with a state-of-
the-art facility ready to meet the needs of the top-notch scientists and industry leaders from across the U.S. coming
to New York to make critical strides and discoveries in viticulture.

In addition, Senator Schumer touted that on the same Cornell AgriTech campus, right next to the new Grape
Institute, he secured a nearly $1.5 million Federal Grant that greenlit the construction of "Tech Farm 2." This brand-
new building will double the size of the current Tech Farm Food Business which originally opened on the campus in
2005. This facility will be worked on in tandem with the new Grape Institute, which will create bushels of new jobs.
With more than 45 startup companies launched thanks to the original Tech Farm incubator, we know this model
works. Companies like Assured Edge Solutions, who have called the Tech Farm their home has outgrown the
space and are ready to move into Tech Farm 2 and add up to 20 new jobs. Now, there is a waiting list of companies
anxious to move into the new Tech Farm incubator, so the number of new jobs will only increase.

Senator Schumer has been a steadfast supporter of the Finger Lakes wine industry, advocating for several crucial
changes and securing significant funding to bolster its growth. Most recently, Schumer championed the TTB
additional sizes for wine, addressing restrictive federal canning regulations. This change, driven by Schumer's
advocacy, enables New York wineries to tap into the new canned wine market, which has seen growth of upwards
of $200 million. Schumer also led efforts led to a permanent reduction of excise taxes through the Craft Beverage
Modernization and Tax Reform Act, providing vital financial relief to brewers, wine makers, cider makers, and
distillers across the state. Schumer also pushed for assistance during the Coronavirus pandemic, securing eligibility
for Economic Injury Disaster Loans for vineyard wineries, expanding loan eligibility to include 501(c)(6)
organizations like Finger Lakes Wine Trail marketing organizations and the New York Wine and Grape Foundation,
and incorporating wine grapes in the USDA's Coronavirus Food Assistance Program.

### For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
contentservices@htdigital.in


Load-Date: July 17, 2024


  
