

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
             Nasuni Announces Majority Investment Led by Vista Equity Partners at $1.2 Billion Valuation




 Nasuni Announces Majority Investment Led by Vista Equity Partners at $1.2
                             Billion Valuation
                                                           PR Newswire
                                              July 9, 2024 Tuesday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1115 words
Dateline: BOSTON, July 9, 2024

Body


PR NewswireTCV and KKR also Participate as New InvestorsBOSTON, July 9, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Nasuni, a
leading enterprise data platform for modern hybrid cloud environments, today announced a strategic growth
investment led byVista Equity Partners, a global investment firm focused exclusively on enterprise software, data,
and technology-enabled businesses. Vista will be joined byTCV and KKR in the new investment, which values
Nasuni at approximately $1.2 billion.

 The investment will build on Nasuni'sstrong momentum disrupting the legacy storage industry to further accelerate
product innovation and commercial expansion in the global hybrid cloud market. Further terms of the transaction
were not disclosed."At Nasuni, we care first and foremost about the success of our customers, partners, and
employees," said Paul Flanagan, CEO of Nasuni. "We are maniacal about our commitment to delivering quality in
every aspect of our business and interaction with our customers. This investment and our strategic partnership with
Vista, TCV, and KKR will allow us to build upon that commitment, scale with purpose and continue to innovate as
we look to take Nasuni to the next level."Nasuni's success to-date includes award winning technology, top decile
customer retention rates, industry leading NPS scores, and a consistent 30% growth rate in a market that is rapidly
expanding with the advent of hybrid cloud and AI. Nasuni's data platform is used by over 850 companies spanning
70 countries, and is in use by some of the largest enterprises in the manufacturing, consumer goods, and energy
industries."Nasuni's platform offers a highly differentiated approach to consolidating, protecting, and managing data
at scale with performance that is critical to supporting AI applications and other high-volume data use-cases," said
Martin Taylor, Co-Head of Vista's Foundation Fund and Senior Managing Director. "We are thrilled to partner with
the Nasuni team as they work to help businesses optimize their expanding and complex data needs with solutions
that are fast, secure, and highly cost-effective."BofA Securities served as the exclusive financial advisor and
Goodwin Proctor LLP served as legal advisor to Nasuni. Kirkland & Ellis LLP served as legal counsel to Vista and
TCV. KKR is making the investment through its Next Generation Technology III Fund.About NasuniNasuni is a
scalable data platform for enterprises facing an explosion of unstructured data in an AI world.The Nasuni File Data
Platform delivers effortless scale in hybrid cloud environments, enables control at the network edge, and meets the
modern enterprise expectation for insight- and AI-ready data. It simplifies file data management while increasing
storage access and performance. Its best-in-class file recovery protects customers against a range of cyber threats
and eliminates the need for specialized backup and disaster recovery – all while cutting the cost of infrastructure by
up to 65%. Organizations worldwide rely on Nasuni, spanning across the manufacturing, construction, energy,
consumer goods, and public sectors. Nasuni's corporate headquarters is in Boston, Massachusetts, and the

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
           Nasuni Announces Majority Investment Led by Vista Equity Partners at $1.2 Billion Valuation

company delivers services to over 70 countries. For more information, visitwww.nasuni.com.About Vista Equity
PartnersVista is a leading global investment firm with more than $100 billion in assets under management as of
December 31, 2023. The firm exclusively invests in enterprise software, data and technology-enabled organizations
across private equity, permanent capital, credit and public equity strategies, bringing an approach that prioritizes
creating enduring market value for the benefit of its global ecosystem of investors, companies, customers and
employees. Vista's investments are anchored by a sizable long-term capital base, experience in structuring
technology-oriented transactions and proven, flexible management techniques that drive sustainable growth. Vista
believes the transformative power of technology is the key to an even better future – a healthier planet, a smarter
economy, a diverse and inclusive community and a broader path to prosperity. Further information is available
at vistaequitypartners.com. Follow Vista on LinkedIn,@Vista Equity Partners, and on X,@Vista_Equity.About
TCVFor nearly thirty years, TCV has partnered with global, category-defining, technology companies as a leading
growth equity investor. Leveraging its deep industry expertise and strategic resources, TCV's mission is to provide
long-term capital and support to high-quality management teams across their growth journey. Since its founding in
1995, TCV has invested over $20 billion in more than 350 technology companies worldwide and has supported over
150 IPOs and strategic acquisitions, making it one of the most active technology investors. Select investments
include Airbnb, AxiomSL, Built, CCC Intelligent Solutions, Celonis, Clio, Cradlepoint, ETQ, ExactTarget, Expedia,
Facebook, Fandango, Genesys Software, GoDaddy, GoFundMe, HomeAway, Miro, Netflix, Nubank,
OneSourceVirtual, Prodege, Qonto, Relex, Revolut, SilverPeak, Splunk, Sportradar, Spotify, Toast, Twillio, and
Zillow. TCV has a global presence in Menlo Park, New York, London and Melbourne. For more information on TCV
and its investments, visit tcv.com.About KKRKKR is a leading global investment firm that offers alternative asset
management as well as capital markets and insurance solutions. KKR aims to generate attractive investment
returns by following a patient and disciplined investment approach, employing worldclass people, and supporting
growth in its portfolio companies and communities. KKR sponsors investment funds that invest in private equity,
credit and real assets and has strategic partners that manage hedge funds. KKR's insurance subsidiaries offer
retirement, life and reinsurance products under the management of Global Atlantic Financial Group. References to
KKR's investments may include the activities of its sponsored funds and insurance subsidiaries. For additional
information about KKR & Co. Inc. (NYSE: KKR), please visit KKR's website atwww.kkr.com. For additional
information about Global Atlantic Financial Group, please visit Global Atlantic Financial Group's website
atwww.globalatlantic.com.Media ContactsNasuniKristin Concannon
kconcannon@nasuni.com

617-416-2873Vista Equity PartnersBrian W. Steel
media@vistaequitypartners.com

212-804-9170TCVmarketing@tcv.comKKRLiidia Liuksila
media@kkr.com View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nasuni-
announces-majority-investment-led-by-vista-equity-partners-at-1-2-billion-valuation-302191260.htmlSOURCE
Nasuni


Load-Date: July 9, 2024


  
